A Hillary-based non-profit organisation (NPO) founder is proof that determination and faith can get one out of the deepest and the most darkest corners of depression. Veronica Strydom, founder and rescuer at Hedgehog and Tenrec Rescue and Re-home KZN, overcame extreme hardships including severe abuse in her formative years to make it to the other side. She said that her defining moment in life was the day she decided enough was enough. “I was abused beyond measure, both physically and mentally. I was literally almost killed and in Grade 9, I decided to take my own life. Fortunately I was not successful which today I am grateful for. I ran away from home when I was 16 and jumped from home to home until I landed up in Vereeniging and finished my matric in 2014,” Strydom said. Since she was the youngest, Strydom said that she did not have anyone to call on for support as her siblings left home before her. As a result of her traumatic experiences, Strydom was diagnosed with both depression and anxiety. However in August this year, her depression took a turn for the worst. She said: “In August, I hit a stage of depression that I have never experienced before. I started questioning my purpose on this earth and I started to judge myself, comparing myself to other 25-year-olds and what they have accomplished. For weeks, I did not want to get out of bed. I was constantly crying and I went as far as to pray to God not wake me up the next morning, but each morning I woke up and had to carry on with my life.” Strydom battled with her dim reality, a friend encouraged her to fight on and focus her energy on something that was more positive in her life. This marked the birth of her business, Nala and Me. She said: “After some thought from my friend’s suggestion, I decided on making healthy treats for animals. I combined two things I love, which is baking and animals. Nala and Me is my pride and joy as Nala is the first dog my boyfriend of four years and I raised together.” Strydom advised other women dealing with issues similar to her not to give up hope and prayer. She said: “I would say the biggest thing that helped me was prayer and finding something that I absolutely love, making it a full time job. Also get help from a professional is definitely a must and remember you are not alone even if it feels like it.”