In a pursuit to promote wellbeing and unconditional laughter, Westville North resident, Heinrich Visser has received an accolade from India and is now the first Laughter Ambassador in South Africa. After falling in love with the world of laughter coaching in 2008, the following year, he went to study with Dr. Madan Kataria (Laughter Yoga International University, Bangalore, India) for his Laughter Therapy teacher’s qualification. He has since traveled through Southern Africa over the past decade offering a variety of laughter and empowerment programmes to thousands of people. Visser is one of a few Certified Laughter Professors in South Africa and loves bringing laughter coaching to the Corporate world, Schools, Universities, NGO’s and NPO’s. He is currently working with the elderly at Tafta where he has a laughter club, he also works with other NPOs. Visser explained Laughter Yoga as a unique concept where anyone can laugh for no reason, without relying on humour, jokes or comedy. “We initiate laughter as an exercise in a group, but with eye contact and childlike playfulness, it soon turns into real and contagious laughter. The reason we call it Laughter Yoga is because it combines laughter exercises with yoga breathing. This brings more oxygen to the body and the brain which makes one feel more energetic and healthy. The concept of Laughter Yoga is based on a scientific fact that the body cannot differentiate between fake and real laughter if done with willingness. One gets the same physiological and psychological benefits,” he said. As an ambassador, Visser’s role includes promoting  awareness about laughter techniques and the health benefits through public speaking forums, demonstrations and establishing laughter clubs in South Africa. “One of my missions will be to bring health, happiness and world peace through laughter to the South African public,” he said. Visser said that the Laughter Ambassadors are appointed based on their competence and dedication for promoting Laughter Yoga to the general public. “They possess qualities of sincerity, enthusiasm, credibility and helpfulness essential to be respected as spokespersons, educators and role models for the global Laughter Yoga movement,” said Visser. Amongst other principles observed in the programme, promoting oneness tops their list, as ambassadors, they believe that everyone belongs to each other. No one is superior or inferior, everyone is equal. “We are part of a global family with diverse cultural values bound together through the worldwide network of Laughter Yoga Clubs in a common pursuit of good health, peace and understanding,” said Visser. Ambassadors do not put their personal interests before the need of others. They encourage discussion and differing opinions, and do not allow personal ego to interfere with adopting good solutions regardless of where they originate. Visser said that his future plans include to get more involved with NGOs and NPOs to help with fundraisers and training people. “I have a real passion for working with people that really need laughter in their lives and de-stressing workshops as people are totally traumatised because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.