Five suspects will on Wednesday line up inside the dork at the uMbumbulu Magistrates Court, charged with the murder of ANC youth leader and Coastal TVET College student, Smanga Zulu. Zulu, 32, was gunned down on 21 October while in the company of two friends who managed to survive the incident. Two suspects appeared in Mbumbulu Magistrate Court on 2 November and the other three appeared in the same court on 3 November. On 11 November, it will be first time that all five suspects will appear together in court, to make their formal bail application. The accused are facing charges of murder and attempted murder. It is alleged that, on the day of the incident, the accused opened fire on Zulu and two other students who were were immediately rushed to KwaMakhutha Clinic, where the former SASCO regional chairperson in Durban South Region succumbed to his injuries. The arrest of the suspects has been welcomed by the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation, Dr Bonginkosi Blade Nzimande. He said: “I congratulate SAPS for swiftly arresting these suspects and urge them to work tirelessly to also arrest the assailants who shot and killed Lindinkosi Mazibuko, the head of infrastructure at the same TVET College.” Mazibuko was gunned down a week after Zulu. The motive behind Zulu’s murder is unknown and currently being investigated by police from KwaMakhutha SAPS. Zulu is a former SRC chairperson in Coastal College Mbumbulu Campus, SASCO branch chairperson in Mbumbulu College, SASCO Regional deputy chairperson in Durban South Region and ANCYL branch chairperson in Vusi Madlala branch of the YL in the eThekwini Region. Nzimade added that his death has dealt a blow to the revival of the TVET student leadership and governance structures which the department was in the process of reestablishing, after the demise of the South African Further Education and Training Student Association (SAFETSA). He said: “Amongst the major issues that the current student leadership should preoccupy itself with is the safety of students on and off campus, whilst the TVET sector campus management should ensure that they heighten safety and security on campuses.” Zulu was laid to rest on Saturday, the 31 October in eMondlo, northern KwaZulu-Natal. The other two students are currently recuperating well in hospital.