Hours have been given to defaulters within the Ugu District Municipality to pay their outstanding debt, make payment arrangements or face water cuts. France Zama, municipal spokesperson, said that the municipality will be cutting off supply of its water and sanitation services to several institutions, government departments, businesses and customers over non-payment of water accounts effective from Wednesday, 11 November. Zama said that this was inline with Ugu’s credit control policy which the embattled municipality is implementing to recover lost revenue. He said: “Our credit control policy clearly states that consumers who are in arrears with their municipal accounts and those who have not made arrangements with council or credit control department will have their water supply and other municipal services suspended, restricted or terminated.” The Ugu District covers the Umdoni, Umzumbe, Umuziwabantu and the Ray Nkonyeni municipalities, which they supply water too. Zama said that the municipality will be taking stringent measures to defaulters who continue to “shrug off” several requests and notices to settle overdue accounts. “Not only does this hinder the municipality’s ability to provide adequate services but this also deprives communities of receiving their basic human right. Consequently, water services to these institutions or individuals concerned will remain cut until they remedy the situation by settling their arrears,” he said. Water supply within the district has been a raging issues of contention among ratepayers, who have threaten the municipality with legal action and non-payment over the lack of serviced delivery. Some areas live without running water for weeks at a time and suffer constant sewage leaks. Bertie Strydom, a farmer living under the Umuziwabantu Municipality, said that he has opened a case against the Ugu and that he is waiting on the outcome of the investigation. “We live without running water and every time it rains, we know that that we will wake up to the stink of sewage which will be overflowing into the nearby river.” Zodwo Dlamini, a resident, said that paying their water bill was futile. “What are we paying for exactly?” she asked. Khumalo said that residents are paying for non-existent services. “Where I live, there are constant water and power cuts and potholes everywhere. We are paying rates for nothing,” she added. Nzama said payments of outstanding accounts can be made at the Ugu District Municipality offices in Port Shepstone, Oslo Beach, Harding, Park Rynie as well as satellite offices, the South African Post Office and their agencies, ABSA bank and Easy-Pay outlets such as Pick n’ Pay and Checkers. Arrangements can also be made through the revenue collections manager, Busi Ncane, who can be reached via email at Busisiwe.Ncane@ugu.gov.za.