The body of a 19-year-old drowning victim was recovered at Addington Beach on Tuesday after the swimmer was washed out to sea while swimming at Wedge Beach over the weekend. Captain Nqobile Gwala, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson said that police officers from the Durban Search and Rescue Unit together with other role players were called out to Addington Beach after a body was seen floating near the shark nets. The body of a 19-year-old man was recovered and brought ashore at the Ushaka Lifeguard Tower. “It is alleged that the victim was last seen swimming at Wedge Beach on Sunday before he went missing. An inquest docket was opened at Point SAPS for investigation,” Gwala said. Due to the increasing number of people who have recently drowned while swimming at the beach, dams and rivers, police in KwaZulu-Natal is cautioning members of the public to take extra care. “The holiday season is upon us and we must take extra precautions. Water safety is one of the functions of the SAPS and the Water Wing will be on standby,” Gwala said.
She said that the Water Wing will be patrolling the waters to ensure that people breaking away for the festive season, adhere to the rules and regulations that govern water activities. Gwala said that organisers of water activities must ensure that appropriate equipment, such as reaching or throwing equipment, a cell phone, life jackets and a first-aid kit are available, with the necessary emergency instructions. “Knowing CPR is a skill that can mean the difference between survival and the death of a victim who almost drowned. Special care must be taken at isolated dams, rivers and pools on farms and in rural areas, especially after heavy rain in the area. Even a small inflatable pool or bucket full of water, is a potential danger for toddlers if they are not supervised,” said Gwala. Police urged swimmers to be cautious when swimming in the sea citing that experienced swimmers have drowned in the sea. According to police, beachgoers and swimmers must assess the swimming conditions and consult with lifeguards on duty before engaging in swimming as currents and tides can be deadly. Citizens are urged to look out for children at the beach. “Never leave a young child unattended near water and never make a child responsible for another child – not even for five minutes. Teach children to always ask permission to go near water. “If a child is missing, check the water first. Seconds count in preventing drowning or permanent disability. Swimming aids, such as water wings or noodles, are fun toys for kids, but they should never be used instead of approved flotation devices,” Gwala added. Swimmers are discouraged from swimming alone and are urged to only swim in designated areas that are supervised by lifeguards for the safety of all.