The community of Verulam have expressed outrage over four-year-old Armaan Cassim’s death two weeks ago. The young boy was allegedly “thrown out of a window” from the third story block of flats that he lived in. Circumstances leading to the child’s death are still unclear with many suspecting foul play. In an exclusive interview with Tabloid Newspapers, Armaan’s biological father speaks out. Whaeed Khan,34, said he is still in disbelief about the tragic incident. “What I really think happened was a heated dispute and that’s according to quite a few witnesses that stay in the building. They said there was screaming, fighting, things being broken and the sound of someone being strangled. Somehow, the baby got in the way and he was flung out the window. From the results at the hospital the child’s head had been cracked. There’s no broken bones or anything.” The Isipingo father said he received a call to go to uMhlanga hospital as soon as possible. “When I got to the hospital nobody was with the child. The nurse told me she doesn’t know whose baby he is and that’s why they called the South African Police Service,” he said. Khan said Armaan was taken to the hospital by Sameera Cassim’s (mother of the child) father-in-law who left the hospital shorty after dropping the child off. Khan said after his divorce from Sameera Cassim he had been through constant legal battles trying to get visitation rights. The father said: “I tried liaising with Sameera and she kept stringing me along saying ‘We’re not around this week or I’m not feeling well’ so I went to court but she always had excuses.” According to reports the stepfather’s car had been “stoned by Khan’s family”. Khan provided an explanation. He said: “After my visit to the hospital I arrived at the flat and noticed a foreign national and another two men cleaning the blood on the driveway where the incident occurred. I took my phone out to record what they were doing. They became violent and came to attack me. In the heat of the moment I picked up a stone and threw it not realising I damaged the car.” A neighbour who wishes to remain anonymous said he was witness to the alleged screams and arguments that happened on the day of the child’s death. “I’ve been living in this area for 20 years and I have noticed that there’s been some serious physical violence in that flat. On the day of the child’s death I was home praying and I heard a lot of screaming. It sounded like a couple fighting.” The neighbor said after his prayer he began working in his yard. “Because of the number of incidents that occurred previously, I didn’t care to look on the day as the fighting became a norm. At about 10.15am I heard a really hysterical scream in a lady’s voice. We all then just went inside.” He said at around 4pm he noticed a crowd at his gate and upon investigation he learned that a child had died at the flat. Captain Nqobile Gwala from the South African Police Service said the Verulam police department is investigating an inquest. Gwala confirmed the young boy sustained head injuries and was rushed to hospital where he died. The matter is still under investigation. When approached by Tabloid Newspapers the mother and stepfather declined to comment.