Refuse collection and street sweeping services have commenced in the Durban CBD after it was affected by an illegal strike by Expanded Public Works Programme workers (EPWP) last week. Residents and businesses are requested to be patient while DSW is dealing with the backlog. EThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said that residents can now take out their refuse bags and wheelie bins on normal collection days. Last week, EPWP workers embarked on an illegal strike following disagreements with Ethewkini Municipality over permanent employment. Workers left the streets of Durban looking like a dumpsite with garbage strewn all over the place. Mayisela said that the EPWP workers intimidated permanent sweeping staff from the Durban Solid Waste Department threatening them not to leave their depots, barricaded gates. “We understand the frustration experienced by our ratepayers and customers and that drastic steps need to be taken. “We apologise for the inconvenience caused and we ask that our residents be patient with us as we work to resolve this,” Mayisela said. As far as waste collection is concerned, residents in Glenwood complained about their garbage not being collected. On Tuesday, ward councillor for ward 33, Mmabatho Tembe posted a notice after reporting to the municipality that DSW trucks had broken down resulting in slow collection. The notice said that the unit is trying as much as possible to get a spare truck and are awaiting management’s approval, however, residents should be patient as collections will be done slowly. In the Overport area, waste collection was not affected, however, ward 31 councillor, Charmaine Clayton said that during the protest last week, bin packets were thrown all over the streets by the protestors. Heather Rorick, Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum (BSURF) and Umbilo executive CPF chairperson said that the entire community of Glenwood and Umbilo has been very angry and fed up with the constant problems faced by DSW. “If it is not striking by staff, it’s problems with the trucks, shortages and late pickups. This is affecting us as residents. It is certainly not nice in this heat to have rubbish spilled or piling up all over our community, it attracts flies, cockroaches, mice, rats, mosquitoes and of course the bin-pickers, who open each bag, spilling contents onto the pavement. The stench is then terrible, especially in the heat,” said Rorick. Rorick said that with Covid-19, hygiene is important and this is an eye-sore and degrading to the community, especially to visitors  coming into the community to visit the many splendid businesses in the area. “It is even more of an eye-sore and embarrassment for us as residents when our own visitors come to visit us and see this in front of our properties or piling up on our roads. The residents are scared and have no choice besides going out to pick up the rubbish. “We have a few very caring community members that do try to keep their area in front of their property or their road clean, but when they query why they are still paying rates for domestic refuse removal when they are doing it themselves, no one responds. Durban as a whole is looking very bad,” said Rorick.