The sword has fallen on errant Umdoni mayor Thabani Dube and the ANC chief whip, Bonginkosi Mngadi, who have been given their marching orders by the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) for failing to act on the mismanagement and the looting of funds within the troubled municipality. Poor service delivery and internal conflicts within the caucus were also sighted as some of the reasons behind the sacking of Dube and Mngadi who were publicly asked to resign with immediate effect by ANC provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli, during a press briefing on 27 October, in Durban. He said that Dube and Mngadi’s failure to act decisively on unifying the caucus and to stop the looting of municipal coffers sealed their fate. Ntuli said that the most recent act of the misuse of funds by Umdoni municipal manager (MM) Vuyiwe Tsako and chief financial office (CFO) Thandazile Mhlongo was the last straw for the PEC and the Provincial Working Committee (PWC), who called for their heads. He said: “We (the PEC) were very unhappy that management in that area decided to pay themselves a danger allowance for working during the lockdown. They paid themselves that danger allowance without it being policy of the municipality let alone a decision taken by council.” Ntuli said that when the PEC questioned Mngadi and Dube about the danger allowance payments, only then was the matter acknowledged by the former chief whip and mayor.
He said: “When we asked the leadership how this could have happened on their watch, those that could afford it started paying back the money, meaning that they knew it was absolutely wrong and illegal when they were doing it. This should have not have happened in the first place.” The amount paid as part of the danger allowance was not divulged by Ntuli nor how many municipal employees were paid extra for conducting their duties during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown. He said that when the leadership was asked to act on the blatant abuse of power and municipal funds, they failed to act against the Municipal Manager (MM) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). “We said to the leadership of the council that you have got to take action and there must be a sense of evidence that this action against the people involved, i.e the municipal manager and the CFO, has been taken. We did not get substantive action being taken and the explanations given were not convincing and that is why we said if you cannot supervise your subordinates, we have a responsibility to supervise you. When you are not able to act in accordance with law and the mandate of your organisation against clear wrong doing in the municipality, that is why we are recalling you, on the basis of those actions and it is the correct decision,” Ntuli said. He added that they were pining their hopes on the new deploy to get Umdoni back in shape. “The new deployment will help us to build a cohesion of the council and caucus. They must speed up service delivery and act mercilessly against officials who are violating the law with impunity because they thought that nobody was going to make them account.” Ntuli said.