Drs Niren (Ray) Maharaj and Jayneetha (Jenny) Maharaj graduated on 30 October from the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) and have been awarded their Master of Laws degrees with specialisation in Medical Law. The Westville/Reservoir Hills residents have been married for 26 years. They found studying together to be a unique and enjoyable experience. “Having my wife by my side, sharing class notes and even travelling together to lectures and examinations, made it all the more meaningful, said Ray. Jenny said her husband has “always been a source of inspiration and a pillar of strength.” “My husband has always inspired me through his discipline and commitment to public healthcare. He has encouraged me to be unconventional in embracing legal studies and provided a platform for discussion.” She said she found it challenging to combine work, family, household commitments, studying and writing examinations. ” I think the experience significantly enhanced my “multi-tasking” skills,” said Jenny. Ray who obtained a cum laude pass, is the head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital and a lecturer in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at UKZN’s Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine.  His thesis, Medical Malpractice Disputes in South Africa: The Potential Role of Mediation as an alternate dispute resolution mechanism, was motivated by concerns regarding the exponential rise in medical malpractice claims against the state, as well as declining interest among specialists to remain in high-risk fields such as Obstetrics and Paediatric Neurosurgery. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, the couple said they hope to create awareness and promote social justice in achieving a balance between human rights, intellectual property and access to medicines. ” After having completed medical specialisation and obtaining further qualifications in our respective medical fields thereafter, we noted challenges in healthcare that require legislative intervention. This required a better understanding of the legal system, legislative prescripts and health laws and motivated our choice to study law and specialise in medical law,” said the couple. Ray said that after democracy, South Africans have become more aware of their human rights and their recourse to justice through the legal system. ” The medical profession is also targeted through the legal system, and the country has experienced a rising trajectory in medical malpractice claims. Specialists in high risk fields like Obstetrics, Orthopedics and Paediatric Surgery, amongst others, are plagued with exorbitant medical insurance costs, which is likely to become unsustainable and drive them out of their fields of practice. Unethical medical practice, gross negligence and avoidable harm caused by practitioners to their patients also needs to be rooted out. Achieving this balance will benefit healthcare by maintaining much needed specialist services whilst ensuring that patients are treated safely,” said Ray. Jenny said that tuberculosis still remains a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in South Africa. Complicated forms of TB, such as MDR TB and XDR TB are highly infectious and potentially lethal, affecting the community. ” A contributing factor to resistant forms of TB is the failure of patients to complete their course of treatment. Current legislation and generic policy guidelines in this regard are non specific in dealing with the containment of the spread of the disease. A review of the ethical, human rights and legislative considerations, will benefit communities, as the control of the disease is linked to social determinants and public health, ” said Jenny. The couple said that their studies enabled them to appreciate the precarious relationship that exists between pharmaceutical companies, governments and NGO’s in making affordable medicines available to the vulnerable. “Currently, affordable access to essential medicines that are under patent, depends partly on the terms of national patent laws and on the actions of the patent holder, ” said the couple. They say that a deeper understanding is required between intellectual property rights of drug makers and access to affordable medicines to the vulnerable. “We can do better in improving access through negotiations, tiered pricing, donations, alternate forms of compensation and specific legislation that supports non enforcement of payments,” said the couple. They hope to work with the Schools of Law and Medicine to create awareness and promote social justice through increasing the access to medication. The research papers can be found at the School of Law, Howard College, UKZN.