Gender-based violence (GBV) cannot be fought by government alone, that was the message that rang out loud on the streets of Umzumbe on Friday at an awareness march that was led by the Ugu Municipality mayor Sizwe Ngcobo and Higher Education and Training Deputy minister Buti Manamela. Ngcobo and Manamela were joined by Umzumbe mayor Londolo Zungu, municipal speaker Matho Shozi along side members of law enforcement in the march against GBV in uMthwalume, where six women were found murder between April and July.Ngcobo said: “If we unite, we can fight this scourge together. “We must stand in solidarity to against the murder and abuse of children. No resident in the Ugu District should stand for such atrocities and defend rapists and murderers.”The march followed that of the one led by the non-profit organisation, Turning Point, along Beach Road on Wednesday, in Amanzimtoti. Also known as Qhakaza, the organisation was joined by various stakeholders including Lifeline Durban, SAPWA, Seed of hope, Bobbie Bear, Kingsburgh Child Welfare and Amanzimtoti Child Welfare. They were also joined by FAMSA, PDA Health, Community Trust, Sparrow Trust, Usizo, ward 97 councillor Andre Beetge, PT Alarms, National Security, Blue Security, Metro Police, SAPS and the CPF. The amped group took to the streets on foot and with a motorcade to spotlight the horrors of violence against women and children. Tia-Tasana Govender, spokesperson for Turning Point, said that the purpose of the march was to create awareness and to take a united stand against the abuse and violence. She said: “Our aim was to update the community, stakeholders and clients on GBV issues and to create within the community the importance of breaking the silence, victims’ rights, available support and empowerment.”Dhevan Govindasamy, spokesperson for PT Alarms, said that any form of violence against women and children, be it physical, emotional or sexual, is unacceptable. “PT Alarms Tactical and Response Units and PT Ambulance Service were present at the launch and vowed to continually support the campaign 365 days of the year offering safety and protection to women and children,” Govindasamy said.