Excitement was evident in the faces of Reservoir Hills informal settlement fire victims when they saw the KZN Department of Social Development (DSD), MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza on Wednesday afternoon. Khoza, together with the acting chief director of Durban Social Welfare, Sibongile Sikhahane visited the informal settlement to attend to issues concerning the loss of the victims important documentation that burnt in the fire which engulfed over 400 dwellings on Saturday, 25 October. Sikhakhane said this was her first visit since the tragic incident which resulted in the loss of one life. “We share our deep condolences to the affected families and today we are here to hand over some relief packages which will assist while the victims are putting their lives together,” said Sikhakhane. Ward 21 Councillor Xolani Nala welcomed the visitors stating that it was an honor to have them respond to the matter as quickly as possible. ” We are really grateful for your intervention,” Nala said. The MEC said she could not ignore such tragedy as the people are very important to the provincial government. “Today I am supposed to be attending a cabinet meeting but our premier, Sihle Zikalala said that coming here is more important,” said Khoza. She said that bearing in mind that the country is still facing the Covid-19 pandemic, she was not happy to see the residents not wearing face masks. “I can see that I was not fully prepared for todays visit. I should have brought boxes of masks to give to the people as I know that most of them lost everything in the fire including their masks.” Khoza said that her visit was also blessed by the presence of Thanduxolo Sabela, an Ethekwini committee member who was delegated by the municipality’s housing department. “Our eThekwini official is here today to deliver more material to the victims so that they rebuild their shelters. As DSD we are also here to add to that by giving you food parcels and blankets so that you will have food and stay warm,” Khoza said. She added that she will be in contact with Skhakhane to ensure that the females are provided with sanitary wear and all the necessities. “We will also ensure that the children who do not have uniforms are provided with new uniforms so that they can go back to school like all the other kids. Giving a vote of thanks to all the visitors, ward committee leader Mpikelwa Shezi who was one of the first residents of the Reservoir Hills informal settlement said that he was grateful and honored to see the MEC and her delegation. ” I would like to thank the councillors of this ward for taking good care of us. They check on us on a daily basis since the tragedy and we appreciate it. I just have one wish that the MEC goes to where the incident happened so she can witness our state of living. Maybe if she sees it for herself she will pull some strings so that we get proper houses, at least Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP) houses just like other people.” said Shezi. The residents were very happy for all they received and expressed how saddened they were about losing one of their own, Moses Mlambo, who died last Monday in hospital, succumbing to burn wounds.