Vandalism and cable theft on the Mount Edgecombe interchange bridge has left pedestrians fearing for their safety. The R1.14 billion project was aimed at reducing traffic congestion and to promote safety for the pedestrians who cross the interchange by foot on a daily basis. However, cable theft has left the 440m long joint bridge in the dark making it hard for the walkaway bridge users to walk on it at late hours. Almost 15 to 20 lamp posts have been cut out. Lindiwe Msweli, 49, domestic worker from Stanger said she has been working in the area for over 14 years and to avoid crossing the busy N2, Msweli uses the walkaway bridge everyday to travel to and from work. Msweli said that she has personally witnessed a mugging where a young woman was attacked by two men who made off with her handbag. The woman, according to Msweli was grazed with the knife and not injured too badly but the incident was enough to leave her fearing for her own life.“Before this whole incident happened, we would see blood stains along the bridge but it has never registered on our minds that there were muggings happening, until I was asked by one of the other domestic workers who works in the area. She told me that I should not walk alone because there have been recent muggings,” said Msweli. Msweli believes that the street light cables were stolen by thieves. “It is difficult to see a person coming towards you when you are on that bridge. We are not complaining about the new bridges that have been built but ever since they have been built, we have become targets left, right and centre. Months ago, there were two security guards that were placed on top of the Millennium Bridge after the reports that there were numerous muggings happening. However, on this bridge we have been neglected. We need more attention paid to this situation. If we do not use the bridge, it would mean we would have to cross the N2 because the taxi drops us on the N2,” she said. Msweli said that she decided to express her fears as she believed she might become the next victim. “We will appreciate it if we could receive the same treatment on this long pedestrian bridge. Once you are on it, if someone comes for you there is nowhere to go,” she added. A 38-year-old male who did not want to be named said that he has also fallen victim. He said that he usually walks across the walkaway to catch a taxi from Gateway. He said he was recently held up at gun point and robbed of R500 in cash with other valuables. “I was lucky enough to escape with just minor stretches on my arm because I fought off my attacker,” he said.Msawakhe Mayisela, spokesperson for eThekwini Municipality said that the matter will be investigated by the Electricity Department and a team will be sent out to repair the lights. “Residents are to ensure that they provide the operator with as much information as possible, ensuring that the faulted street light/s can be easily located. Relevant information should include, Street name or closest address to the street light pole, Street light pole number, description of fault. Residents should obtain a fault reference number from the operator when they finish logging a fault. This can be used to track the status of the query and all related remedial activities,” Mayisela said. Mayisela said cable theft is a major challenge as millions of rands are lost. “Business owners also suffer a great loss in production and profit while household consumers suffer damages to electrical appliances and food spoils. The dark and poorly lit roads can lead to fatalities and a guise for criminals to operate. Criminals are also warned that besides obtaining a jail sentence, cable theft is life-threatening. Residents are urged to report cable theft by contacting the contact centre or the SAPS,” he said. “We continue to advise residents to report faulty street lights to the Electricity Service Unit, by calling the Contact Centre on 0801 313 111,” added Mayisela. Both Durban North and Phoenix SAPS were contacted for any cases opened in the muggings and the response was: “No cases have been reported but we highly advise the public to come forward and report these wrong doings in order to catch the perpetrators,” said Captain Raymond Deokaran, for the Durban North SAPS.