“We do not say that a man who takes no interest in politics is a man who minds his own business: we say that he has no business here at all.’’ Pericles, prominent and influential Greek statesman. When America sneezes, the world catches a cold. This phrase is borrowed from France-Europe, as the USA emerged as a post-war super-power, the tagline stuck – for good, bad and ugly – meaning as a global leader whatever happens in the USA, events invariably affects the whole world. It also signifies Washington’s importance on the world political and diplomatic centre stage. Covid-19 plagued citizens are voicing their votes for a refreshing political landscape to build a bridge with the world – again. So this tit-for-tat, wild card presidential election between sitting head of state Donald Trump, his vice-president Mike Pence, and presidential contender Joe Biden and his first-woman running mate, India-rooted Kamala Harris, are heading for a right royal showdown under the famous star spangled banner flag. More than 100 million (and counting until November 3) have cast their ballots by mail and via polling booths across 50 states. Social media sensations like Tik Tok could also sway the votes. Let us not get ahead of ourselves that the USA is a darling of democracy, far from it: vote-rigging, scare-mongering, voter suppression, polling station discrimination and court injunction are part of the big game of politicking for power, influence-peddling, lobbying and horse-trading. Two-term president Barack Obama, predicting an unfrequented 60 percent plus polling, has urged voters on the Democratic Party campaign trail to make their crosses for the Biden-Harris administration. Usually, 50 percent are apathetic and they stay away from the Red vs. Blue vs. Battleground states razzmatazz for a series of reasons. However, pollsters predict a changing of the guard at the Capitol Hill: Trump’s tenure since 2016 has been clouded in controversy, ranging from his whirlwind, topsy-turvy politics and jaw-dropping antics of about-turn on global issues – including his climate change claptrap, labelling Africa as a “shithole’’, moving the US embassy to east Jerusalem, much to the chagrin of the Palestinians, blaming China for the deadly pandemic, irritating the Ayatollahs in Tehran, tweeting like there is no tomorrow and refusing to read aide-memoire – the arsenal in the opposing camp. On the flip-side, the USA is a diverse “land of the brave, land of the free” cacophony of cultural mix of 328 2-million people of migrants and indigenous natives. Outsiders eye the green card – a passport into dream jobs, homes and equal opportunities. The exodus from Latin America is endless. Don’t get carried away because it is also a nation fraught with a plethora of social and economic woes, political sparring, but firmly underlined by the historical time lines of social justice, freedom and free speech. The USA is a melting pot of a progressive, but a deeply divided and differing democracy with a myriad of issues that have been exposed by the coronavirus, which has cornered the controversial commander-in-chief. A death toll peaking at 250 000 could scupper his second-term presidency ticket. A no-show economy has put millions of jobs on the dole and food stamps. Let us not get ahead of ourselves that the USA is a darling of democracy, far from it: vote-rigging, scare-mongering, voter suppression, poll station discrimination and court action – a typecast out Africa and Asia and South America – are part of the big game of politicking for power, influence-peddling, deal-making and horse-trading. Two-term president Barack Obama, predicting an unprecedented 60 percent plus polling, has urged voters on the Democratic Partycampiagn trail to make their crosses for the Biden-Harris political pact. Usually, 50 percent are apathetic and they stay away from the red vs blue vs battleground states razzmatazz of the flag-waving star spangled banner showpiece. Pollsters are predicting a changing of the guard at the Capitol Hill: Trump’s tenure since 2016 has been clouded in controversy, ranging from his whirlwind topsy-turvy politics and the jaw-dropping antics of the commander-in-chief’s about-turn on global issues – including his climate change claptrap, disparaging Africa as a “shithole”, moving the US embassy to east Jerusalem, much to the chagrin of the Palestinians, and many gaffes and foot-in-the-mouth rhetoric. Lest we forget, he poked his nose into the killings of white farmers in SA and really does not have the time of day for our country battling a R5 trillion debt, but his foreign diplomats continue to redouble their efforts on funding health, education and cultural funding protocols and programmes. His “make America great again” battle-cry to put his voters first won him the hearts and minds of conservatives. He will garner a chunk of the votes in a photo-finish balloting battle royal, but this time, however, the sheriff is facing a high noon silver bullet showdown from a cowboy called coronavirus. The Democrats’ Biden-Harris administration may usher a new order of political vision, economic upswing and social cohesion among communities that are on their back foot battling massive social strifes from Covid-19, healthcare medical aid, poverty, joblessness, overcrowded jails and police brutality. America’s two-million people of Indian origin may politics seriously if Harris is crowned as the first woman vice-president, while millions will rejoice the return of liberal politics headed by a veteran president-elect with 40 years’ experience. Stay switched on to CNN, BBC World, Al Jazeera and our own SABC, NewZroom Afrika (Channel 405), eNCA, radio stations and social media platforms to witness a political earthquake that is about to shake the world. From megaphone politics, coyotes crossing the south of the border to trading barbs, let us wake up to the new american dream and there will hope that SA and Africa will do duty-free AGOA trade deals and secure scholarships, fellowships and educational-cultural exchange programmes. Until next week, from the colonial-apartheid era to democracy, SA is a poignant story of too many chiefs and not enough Indians. • Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist who heads a media communication strategy, publishing and research consultancy, belongs to the Southern African Freelancers’ Association (SAFREA), SA National Editors’ Forum (SANEF),Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International), is an USA-USIS International Visitor and British Council Fellow; and an independent political and social commentator who continues to write columns and leading articles and opinion-editorial commentary for newspapers, magazines, TV and radio, online digital and social media platforms – without fear or favour. Contact Marlan on: marlan.padayachee@gmail.com.