One of Newcastle’s most popular photographers, Candice Bond has made a name for herself in the world of photography. Her unique style of capturing beautiful moments has made her become sought-after. This easy-going, fun-loving mother of two beautiful daughters shared with Newcastle Express her journey into photography as well as how she balances motherhood and a demanding career. Newcastle Express (NE): Growing up, what was life like for you?
Candice Bond (CB): I grew up in Dundee in a happy home with both my parents and my sister. When I was in grade 11 we moved to Durban where I completed high school. Shortly thereafter, my parents decided that the big city was not for us and we moved back to Dundee. I returned to Durban on my own and completed a diploma in beauty, which I have actually never used. I met my husband and moved to Newcastle in 2008 and started working at an armature winding company as a secretary. 13 years later I still work there but as a business system manager. NE: How did you first discover your love for photography?
CB: When my husband and I got engaged, we did our first photoshoot and it was there that the bug bit. After our wedding was captured in the most beautiful way, I decided that I wanted to give this a go. So, a week later, I sold my wedding dress and bought my very first Canon DSLR camera and began playing around. NE: What was your very first photoshoot like?
CB: My first photoshoot was of a girl from Dundee. She was 16-years-old at the time and she felt different from other girls her age and insecure. We took photos of her at a park and I hoped to show her how beautiful she was. I must have done something right because a few years later she asked me to photograph her wedding which for me was such an honour. NE: You have a very unique way of capturing special moments, what is your secret?
CB: I love to capture the in-between moments where the family might be laughing together or just chatting or a stolen kiss between couples. I try my best to make all my clients feel comfortable in front of the lens so that the images look more relaxed and natural. NE: What has been your most interesting or awkward photoshoot so far?
CB: The most interesting shoot was when I was asked to do a family shoot on a farm outside Dundee. I went in my Polo Vivo on the a hectic farm road and when I arrived at the family they wanted to go to a waterfall to take photos. So we all got loaded in the back of a farm bakkie. Here I was on a dusty cruiser gripping onto my camera bag while holding on for dear life as the farmer raced to the waterfall. When we got to what I thought was the waterfall, it was a nice long hike and climb down to the waterfall. It was quite the adventure, but a great end when we got back to the farm house and I was gifted with amazing home made biscuits and goodies for my trip back. NE: How do you balance motherhood, being a wife and your career?
CB: Balancing is something that I still battle to juggle between being a mother of two beautiful daughters, having a full time job and doing photography as my passion. I try my best. I only book a maximum of two shoots per weekend so that I can spend time with my family and then editing is done at night when everyone else are sleeping and no one needs mom. NE: What advice do you have to offer the younger generation who want to become professional photographers?
CB: If photography is something you feel passionate about then go after it and find your unique style. Something that sets you apart from everyone else. NE: Who has influenced you the most throughout your career?
CB: I have so many people who have supported me from the beginning when I started in 2013. Professional photographers who offered to teach me when I knew nothing, all my clients, every single one of them who chose me to capture special moments and trusted me with bigger events. A big thank you to my husband who is my biggest supporter and who makes sure that I am able to pursue my passion by taking care of the children when I am out doing my shoots. NE: What do you have in your handbag?
CB: Powerlips in three colors, purse, car keys, notebook, pen, probably some mints from a restaurant, Tommy Girl perfume and bobby pins at the bottom somewhere. NE: Chocolate cake or salad?
CB: Chocolate cake definitely, although I should choose the salad. NE: Favorite color?
CB: Black