Satish Dhupelia, well known activist, humanitarian, CPF member and great grandson of Mahatma Gandhi passed away on Sunday 22 November at 4.30pm. He was a man who was rarely seen without a smile and had the gift of befriending almost anyone regardless of age, gender or race. I met him more than twenty five years ago and we immediately bonded, becoming best friends. If any man knew more of my secrets, or about my life, it was him . He was my best man at my wedding, and a huge part of my life, as I was of his. Whilst he was still married, I was still considered his other half, and we were inseparable and together on a daily basis . Sats, or Dhups as he was fondly referred to, had an army of friends who he always had time for, and who he would go out of his way for when they were in need, was a teacher and pistol shooting enthusiast. He was also one of the most popular and sought after wedding and concert videographers. His passion for video was only surpassed by his passion for helping people. He had a genuine love for people in general, especially those in need, making him a true humanitarian. We both loved old music by singers like John Lennon and Jim Reeves and of late his passion for music had him frequenting Karaoke nights where he sang his favourite songs. I always told him that he would make a good politician and that I would vote for him, but he felt that politics was not for him, and he would rather be an activist fighting against crime and poverty. He was proud of his 3 kids, Misha, Shashika and Kabir and gave them the best of education. He gave them an upbringing that made them independent thinkers and helped them fuel their passions. I had never seen him discipline them or raise his voice at them. He was more of a friend to them than a father. Once Kabir pushed him into a pool, phone and all, and despite the phone being water damaged, Satish just smiled and didn’t say a word to Kabir. I would have probably lost my cool. He didn’t. Over the years we grew apart, but he was always my first and only best friend. I couldn’t replace him in my life, at least not on the same level of friendship that we shared. In the last month we met twice, and spoke several times before and while he was in hospital. He had an unexplained cough that just wouldn’t go away. Doctors hospitalized him for pneumonia and whilst treating him for that he picked up a bug in hospital. He had to go back to hospital for doctors to figure out what had infected him. Through it all he remained positive of getting better and being home soon. On Wednesday 11 November he sent me this WhatsApp message :
“Doc just came in Seems they knocked out pneumonia but I have picked up a serious hospital infection that is causing all this drama. This does happen because one is weak after pneumonia, unfortunately no visitors, not even family, “ he said. On Monday 16 November he was feeling a lot better and was hopeful of being discharged on Tuesday, the next day. Thursday 19 November, I wished him for his 66th birthday. He was at home. Friday his saturation levels dropped and despite having an oxygen tank at home he had to be rushed by ambulance to hospital where he tested positive for covid 19.
Sunday he suffered a massive heart attack and could not be revived . Condolences from shocked friends and fellow activists filled social media on Sunday night. Sats, you have left your indelible imprint on all the people whose lives you have touched and I will miss you my (best) friend. Stay in the light