Tongaat-born doctor Essack Mitha says that he is honoured after he was selected to lead the South African trial for the groundbreaking Covid-19 vaccine. Mitha, 46, who now lives in Sandton, was chosen by Pfizer, an American pharmaceutical company, which has been working on the vaccine along with Moderna, as its national principal investigator to head the study in the country. The companies are likely to be the first companies to see their respective vaccines authorised in the United States, possibly by the end of this year. The vaccine has proven to be 90 percent effective in preventing the virus. In 2004, Mitha opened the Newtown Clinical Research Centre in Johannesburg, a private clinical trial site, has conducted more than 100 trials as a principal investigator. The doctor moved to Johannesburg with his parents in 1999. He later qualified as a doctor at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, School of Medicine. The clinical trials have been conducted across a wide therapeutic range, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, rheumatology, diabetes, HIV and acute illnesses. The Pfizer vaccine, which is in phase 3 of testing, is his current project. The pharmaceutical corporation, working with BioNTech SE, plans to roll out the vaccine by the end of the year. It expects to immunise up to 50 million people by December and 1.3 billion people in 2021. Mitha said that he was honored by the opportunity. “This is an amazing and great opportunity because the vaccine is not merely going to cure South Africans, but the population around the globe. I take this as a challenge,” he said. Mitha said that South Africa was one of the countries chosen by Pfizer to determine how people responded to the vaccine. Pfizer has already recruited more than 35 000 participants globally for phase 3 of the trial. In South Africa, four sites Newton (Johannesburg), the Western Cape, Limpopo and Pretoria were chosen to conduct trials that started in September with 800 participants.
“It is a relatively small number of participants as compared to other trials currently in progress, but it has the vote of confidence. There is a lot of optimism at the speed at which these trials are developing results. We are working really hard to make sure our targets are met,” said Mitha. He said that the vaccine was fundamentally different from other vaccine candidates. The vaccine is not using live particles or live bacteria to fight the virus. Mitha said that it rather stimulates the immune system in a different way. For this particular trial, Mitha said that two factors were considered. He said that the first factor was to see if the product was safe. Globally, it was proven that there were no serious side-effects. The second factor was to look at how long the vaccine would provide immunity against the virus. Mitha also opened a holistic wellness centre and has served three terms as an executive member of the South African Clinical Research Association.