Despite set backs caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Durban born, Haylea Heyns says she is ready to take South African music by storm with her new single “Blow Your Speakers”. Durban North News chatted with the aspiring artist to find out more about her journey in the music industry. Durban North News (DNN): Who exactly is Haylea Heyns and when did your journey start?
Haylea Heyns (HH): I am a Durban girl. I am crazy about coffee, peanut butter, and my cocker spaniel – Salsa.
My favourite spot in Durban is the promenade, and you will often find me down there jogging or walking my dog. I always knew I wanted to pursue music but my journey only really began when I made a conscious decision to go back to University which was, after a four-year marketing degree and a post graduate diploma in copywriting under my belt. I started from scratch, developing my skills as a musician and studying music. It was a tough decision, one that my family did not support, but it forced me to work really hard as I was super determined, and I ended up graduating with a cum laude. DNN: What do you do for a living?
HH: I used to be a full time performer, but 2020 threw me a curve ball so I now work as a copywriter and content creator at The Brand Collective in Kloof. It is a beautiful place to work, with lovely people and flexible hours so I can fit in my music. DNN: How would you describe yourself in three words?
HH: Perfectionist, caring and sensitive. DNN: What inspired your decision to start a career in the music industry?
HH: What started out as pure passion eventually became a calling. At first music was fun, then I realised I was good at it, so I pursued it. Then it got hard and I wanted to give up, but something deep inside me whispered to keep going, and I am so glad I did. DNN: What do you enjoy most about being a musician?
HH: The ability to express myself creatively, touching people’s lives through music, and hopefully inspiring them and bringing them joy. DNN: Tell us about your first 2019 four-track EP. What inspired you to do these songs?
HH: The EP is really special to me as it opened up a new aspect of my music career and where I learned that I could really write my own music. I spent a month in  studio early last year and the team at the label set me a goal of writing a song a day for 3 weeks. I hit my target with a few extra songs to spare. It was a really inspiring time. Everything you hear on the EP is a reflection of either past or present personal experiences “3am” and “Whole” or things I’d like to inspire in people such as “Don’t Turn Around” and “Africa”. The title track “My Heart Belongs in Africa” is about my home.  No matter where I go in the world I always feel a sense of peace and belonging when I step foot back on African soil. DNN: Tell us about your latest single titled ‘Blow Your Speakers’?
HH: I wrote this song quite some time ago, but it was placed on hold due to the lockdown and me not being able to get to studio in Cape Town to produce and record it. Thank goodness for technology and WIFI, I was able to send my demo to a producer I had always wanted to work with in Cape Town, and we collaborated remotely over WhatsApp voice notes, mostly. He sent me a few versions of the track and made edits until I was happy. I then went to Sonic Studios in Durban when the restrictions were lifted and recorded the vocals, which were sent back to Colin Sher in Cape Town and he mixed them into the track. The rest is history. Blow Your Speakers is a contemporary, upbeat pop song that expresses that feeling of falling in love for the first time. That excitement when your heart feels like it is a speaker so loud it might burst and when you can’t stop thinking of that person you’ve fallen for, cos they’re the ‘hook’ stuck in your head. That is ‘Blow Your Speakers’ kind of love. DNN: If you could change anything about the industry what would it be?
HH: I wish people were kinder and more sincere. I wish South Africans would truly see what we do as art, and pay more for this art form so that we as performers feel more valued and in turn, able to make a decent living off what we do. We put in many hours of training and hard work, and it doesn’t always pay off financially. DNN: What type of musician would you classify yourself as?
HH: I am a versatile performer and have a background in classical music and musical theatre, which has given me solid vocal training but the songs I write and sing now are adult contemporary and pop. DD: Which music moguls have you collaborated with? Can you explain your experience with them and the type of skills you have learned that has helped you in the music career?
HH: I performed with Zolani Mahola from “Freshly Ground” when we sang the anthems at the first international rugby test match between England and South Africa at Emirates Airline Park in Johannesburg.
She is such fun and so down to earth and we had a really good time together, especially celebrating in the hotel bar after the match. We were in such great spirits after South Africa won the game. Performing for 52 000 people was an experience I will never forget. DNN: Can you tell us about your biggest obstacle in your music career and how you have managed to overcome it?
HH: In general, my biggest obstacle is my mind. I always get stressed and think I cannot do something when it’s a little outside my comfort zone, until I do it, and then I’m like, hey that was not so bad, look at me go. Believing in yourself and drowning out the negativity that so often comes with this industry is key to success. DNN: How do you balance your music with other obligations?
HH: It is sometimes a struggle. I do not always get the balance right. I toured internationally with The Westend Sound of Music for nine months while I was married. My husband was so understanding and is always super supportive of my dreams, but it was tough to be apart for so long. It was worth it in the end as I grew as a performer over this time. DNN: What advice and words of motivation can you offer beginners in the industry?
HH: Do not give up too easily. This industry will test you, any real dream will, but if it’s in your heart to do it, do not let anyone discourage you. Put your head down and work hard. A lot does depend on talent, but just remember this, “hard work beats talent when talent doesn’t work hard.”