It was sombre mood at the funeral of a four-year-old Armaan Kassim, who was laid to rest yesterday at the Dayal Road Muslim Cemetery. Kassim died on 9 November after falling from the third floor of a building on Ireland Street, on Monday morning. A prayer ceremony held in Phoenix was attended by his family and close relatives. With his mother, father and stepfather in attendance. It is alleged that the boy’s mother and stepfather were arguing when Kassim fell through an open window. The child suffered life threatening injuries and was transported privately to Umhlanga Hospital where he later succumbed to his injuries. Family spokesperson, Riaz Hoosen said that he was at work when he received a call about the tragic incident and immediately rushed to the hospital. “That is when I found out that Armaan’s body was there alone, he had been abandoned. We did not even know who brought the child to hospital and brought him there,” he said. Captain Henry Kisten, Verulam SAPS spokesperson, said that an inquest docket has been opened for investigation. He said: “The body was taken to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH) where an autopsy was conducted,” he said. Prem Balram of a private security company Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said that they received multiple phone calls from Kassim’s paternal family, who stated that the boy had been murdered and that his 30-year-old mother and her 39-year-old husband were on the run. He said that the boy’s paternal family member claimed that four adults were in the flat at the time of the incident. Balram said: “We received information that the couple had returned to their flat on Monday afternoon. Our members proceeded to Ireland Mews and upon arrival they were met by the stepfather and his grandfather.” The stepfather explained that the boy opened the window and fell out. Balram said: “The stepfather confirmed that he rushed the critically injured boy to Umhlanga Hospital. He was unaware that the deceased child had been transferred to a provincial hospital.” He said that boy’s mother was in her flat when their members arrived on the scene. Balram said that the stepfather informed their members that his wife’s family arrived on scene after hearing about the boy’s death and assaulted his 80-year-old mother. “The stepfather also mentioned that his wife’s family members stoned his vehicle. Few hours later, we received an anonymous phone call from a man claiming that the boy was thrown out of the window during an argument,” he said. Balram added that the caller ended a phone call without providing any further details.