Recently released quarterly crime statistics shows that crime is on the rise.”Phoenix has a high rate of rape, hijackings, house break-ins, theft, robbery, murder and various violent and drug-related crimes. The Covid-19 pandemic lockdown certainly drew the curtain back to expose how poverty, economic disparities between the working and unemployed, the rich and the poor and poor education has contributed to crime in Phoenix,” said Alice Govender, community activist. The quarterly crime statistics released recently have painted a sombre picture of the province of KwaZulu-Natal. According to the stats, KZN accounted for 249 murders out of 675 in the whole country. About 37 percent of these murders occurred during the period of July, August and September. Attempted murder rose to 9.6 percent, 102 cases compared to the same period last year. A total of 710 reported rapes took place within the home of the perpetrator, the victim or in residences known by the victim or the perpetrator. A further 215 rape cases occurred in public open spaces. Out of the country’s 304 cases of residential robberies, 90 of those cases were recorded in KZN, making 30 percent of the national total. KwaZulu-Natal was also noted for having the highest number of SAPS officers killed for the period of 2020/21. With locals taking the law into their own hands, police recorded a total of 68 mob-justice crimes. Last month, Govender was called for assistance after a Phoenix family was left traumatised following a shooting incident, where a bullet hit their vehicle which was parked outside their yard and entered through a kitchen window. “Our country has the highest crime rate in the world. KZN, Pietermaritzburg and Durban rate among the six cities in the county with the highest crime. One has to ask the question why we are faced with such high and aggravated crime. Many crimes are not reported because the community distrusts the police services. Most crimes reported have never had the investigation officer assigned to the case following with the complainant. Cases are left unattended and are eventually swept under the carpet. Case files also get mysteriously ‘lost’ or ‘closed’.  I recently followed up on a case of child abuse only to have the complainant told, her file was closed, and the SAPS was unable to say who closed the file and why it was closed,” said Govender. “Needless to say such behaviour by those who are paid to protect us has resulted in the lack of confidence in our police services. Police corruption and bad police behaviour doesn’t help their case either. It’s no longer a cliché when we say we are sleeping with our eyes open, it’s a very sad reality,” said Govender. Govender added that the community must band together and let their voices be heard on the rising crime rate in Phoenix. “We need to start taking care of our properties and our lives, which are endangered every day that we allow crime to perpetuate. I look forward to engaging with the community and stakeholders on how we can jointly address this problem,” she said.