Malacca Informal Settlement residents were up in arms last Thursday after eThekwini Municipality disconnected all illegal electricity connections within the area. Expressing their grievances, the angry mob barricaded the Malacca Road with rumble demanding answers from the city. According to ward 110 councillor, Pete Graham, the residents knew very well that they were not supposed to be connecting electricity illegally.
Since Graham’s leadership in 2016, he said that he has made sure that the informal residents were fully aware of their informal status and repercussions of their actions. “I have also made sure that I inform them that they will never get electricity because it is physically impossible. The land that they have invaded was subjected as a marsh land, it cannot be built on. Hence, that is why the municipality cannot even put electricity poles,” Graham said. Graham said that in 2013, a High Court order was taken out by the city preventing anymore shacks rather than the current 75 shacks from being built. “The city has subsequently failed to adhere to their own court order allowing illegal shacks to multiply from the original number which is nothing more than land- invasion. The land is also subjected to claim by the original owners of it, which is the Indian lands, an organisation which we work with. We have been consistently reporting these illegal connections and cable-theft to the authorities but given that they are approximately 500 informal settlements in various sizes throughout the city, it becomes difficult to report on these wrong doings. Electricity needs to be stable, as soon as you bring in illegal connections, it causes an imbalance in the system which can create surges. Obviously, cable- theft itself is a massive concern to all residents with the power just going out. We have residents who are on life support machines at home and the power suddenly goes out which can cause a serious problem,” he said. “With regards to cable-theft, we are currently setting at 220 WT which can possibly shoot up to 350 or 400 WT anytime soon because of the illegal connections.
This could lead to household devices exploding and that could cost one thousands of rands to replace,” said Graham. He said that illegal connections can claim the life of anyone who walks on it. “Walking in the informal settlement, there are numerous cables lying on the ground which is fully exposed to children. We can have tragic losses in human life all because the city has failed to provide the need of adequate housing to these informal residents,” he added.
Sbonelo Mketwa chairperson of the committee said that residents protested because they felt that they are in limbo with the municipality. Mketwa said that they wouldn’t be any illegal electricity connections if the city had not promised residents that there were going to be moved to Cornubia RDP houses. “Most of these residents still have high hopes that they will receive proper housing from the city, however, there has been nothing that has been done so far,” Mketwa added that residents are tired of their illegal electricity connections being removed because they were promised free electricity. Thabsile Mhlongo who has been a resident for over 13 years said that they are tired ofthe empty promises. “Some of us have children that need to go to school. How are we supposed to prepare porridge and bath our children without electricity. We are not proud that we live in these circumstances, nor are we guinea pigs that deserve such ill-treatment from the city all because we are considered as land invaders, we are still humans,” she said.
Graham said that there will be another raid that will take place within the area to make sure that all illegal connections are disconnected. No comments were received from the municipality at the time of going to print.