The Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa who is the National Operator for the Blue Flag programme, officially launched the 2020/21 Blue Flag Season in Durban, at Ushaka Marine World on Friday, 27 November, where deserving beaches around South Africa were awarded with a Blue Flag status. The Blue Flag programme, is an eco-award given to beaches that meet specific, strict standards of excellence in safety, cleanliness, provision of amenities, environmental information and management. In recognition for meeting these standards 58 Blue Flags are flown at 48 beaches, 6 marinas and by 4 sustainable tourism boats around South Africa over the forthcoming 2020/21 South African Blue Flag season which officially opens on 1 December. This season, Blue Flag South Africa celebrates a 20th anniversary. In 2001, South Africa was the first country outside of Europe to join the Foundation for Environmental Education on the Blue Flag programme. Since then, many countries outside of Europe have joined the Blue Flag programme, giving the programme its international recognition. Beaches that received full blue flag status were: Ushaka, North Beach (Durban), Point, Amanzimtoti and uMhlanga Main. Those that received a pilot status are South Beach Central, Umgababa, Umdloti Tidal, Westbrook, Ansteys and Brighton. At the launch eThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda said: “EThekwini is committed to improving and increasing the number of Blue Flag beaches along the coastline in order to encourage and attract both domestic and international tourism to all beaches, over and above the Blue Flag sites.” Kaunda went on to say that eThekwini, with over 100km of coastline of tourist attractions and the busiest port in the continent, brings economic benefit to the people of eThekwini and the entire continent. Ravi Pillay, MEC Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs who was present at the launch said: “The province is confident about attracting some 750 000 domestic visitors who come to KwaZulu-Natal to experience it all – the natural backdrops, diverse cultures, the taste of our unique range of cuisine, the myriad of attractions and our glorious Blue Flag and many other stunning beaches, for which KwaZulu-Natal is so widely renowned.’’