As MTB lovers converge on Underberg on the weekend of 30 and 31 January for the Euro Steel Drak Descent in partnership with FNB, Euro Steel said that a few will notice the figure of Thubalethu Shange as he will be riding into the Southern Drakensburg town the day before the race. Hardly anyone will know that he has ridden 235 kilometres via Kokstad to get to the race, taking him 13 hours, simply because he does not have the funds to afford to drive to the events he chooses. His ideal event is tough. Like the notorious Munga and the Freedom Challenge that he has completed several times, but as he concedes with a smile, he does not worry about adversity. Shange, who is from the rural village of NdlovuZulu outside Port Shepstone said that his whole life has been tough. “Covid-19 has been tough for the whole country. But I was OK. I have always had to deal with a lack of resources to survive, so it was easier for me to cope,” he said. Shange admits to having chosen to be an ultra-rider, and wants to carve out a name for himself in the most extreme facet of the sport. That is why riding 500 kilometres to and from Underberg for a two day race totalling 90 kilometres doesn’t faze him. Having raced the Euro Steel Drak Descent in 2019 and 2020 he is determined to return. “Why wouldn’t I want to come back? The single track flows beautifully. The technical terrain is not for the faint hearted. The people are so friendly. It is a life-changing event. It would be the perfect place for me to train because it has the altitude and would be a great training camp venue,” said Shange. He has always struggled to fund his passion, Cadence Nutrition helps with his supplements and DCM helps with racing kits, and then he relies on generous individuals to help cover his costs to get to races and maintain his equipment. With a long tar road trip to the race to factor in, he rides the Drak Descent with a gravel bike setup, using semi-slick tyres and rigid forks Once the dust has settled on the two days of MTB action in the foothills of the Southern Drakensberg, the well-heeled riders will leave Underberg with their bikes strapped to their cars, while Shange sets off back to Port Shepstone on his bike with a trademark grin on his face.