Springfield Weekly Gazette(SWG):
Who exactly is Naushad Khan? Naushad Khan (NK):
I am a simple boy and my passion is writing and my hobbies are reading. SWG: What do you do for a living?
NK: For several years I have worked as a receptionist or switchboard operator doing general administration assistant duties. I have been working after – hours on my personal goals and dreams to make a better life for myself and my family. SWG: Is this your first book, tell us more about it?
NK: Race Champ is my very first book and it is a fictional story about a young man who goes by the name of Jason Woods, who is pursuing his dreams of pro-racing. SWG: What special knowledge or research was required to write this book?
NK: No special research or knowledge was required, it is just what everyone knows to be common knowledge about cars, bikes and SUV’s . SWG: What do you hope readers will take from this story?
NK: The motivation to achieve your dreams and goals, no matter how tough it may seem or no matter what life throws at you. There is a moment in the book where it appears as if Jason’s dream had come to an abrupt end, but Jason did not let that stop him from making a plan to continue pursuing his lifelong goals. I find it funny that the character I created in Jason has a lot of my personal traits built into him. SWG: What book from your childhood has shaped you the most?
NK: This is a tough question for me, to answer as I would be in the library every week growing up borrowing 24 books at a time. Inbetween mine, my mothers and my fathers library cards, I would read all 24 books by the very next week. If I was forced to pick, my favourites growing up, I would choose; ‘The Adventures of TinTin’ series and the Asterix and Obelisk series. However, my top two favourite books would be ‘Diary of a Wimpy Kid’ by Jeff Kinney and my all-time favourite book is ‘Hover Racer’ by Matthew Reilly. SWG: What led you to start writing?
NK: I was writing story ideas from the age of five, after being inspired by the stories I would read. My imagination would conjure up other ideas and I would start writing. Crazy story ideas I would come up with would range from a team of mutant-like superheroes to dinosaur stories, to kids going on a voyage in space. SWG: What writing experiences has shaped your writing most?
NK: Stories and writing comes easy to me, but I would say this long journey of getting my book published really changed and shaped me. I was not a very patient person. This experience of eight years has taught me that patience is virtue. SWG: How did you balance the demands of writing with other responsibilities?
NK: I am a planner by nature, so when you organise yourself and use time management wisely, you will always have time for what you need to achieve. SWG: Do you prefer writing in silence or to music?
NK: I am often in a situation and an environment where I am constantly surrounded by noise whether it’s thumping music from my neighbours, fighting and chaos on the street, loud conversations in the passage and many other sounds that are consistent. So, I can operate in just about any environment and still write my stories because I enjoy it and because I believe and achieve. SWG: What would you advise young writers trying to build a publishing history or an author platform?
NK: Do not ever give up. I know it sounds clichè, but it is so true. No matter how long it takes, do not ever quit. I have had moments of doubt, moments where I thought it was never going to happen, moments where I thought that maybe it was not meant for me to be successful or achieve my goals , and yes moments where I even thought about giving up but I pushed through. I believed and I achieved and I am so glad that I did not give up, even when it seemed that all hope was gone.