The community of Merebank has taken a stand against the foul odour coming out of the Southern Wastewater Treatment Works which they allege is emitting a toxic smell, posing a danger to their health. Merebank was abuzz on Friday morning with residents who attended the picket, and marched towards Veolia Drive, blocking the sewerage works gate. Desmond D’sa of the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA) said that the entire Merebank Ridge and Central area is stinking of faeces that he believes has been brought in from outside the area. He said: “Families have to put up with 60 percent of faeces been brought in by trucks from other areas. The municipality has not maintained their sewage works, shifting their money to massive parties or bailing out recreational areas like uShaka with millions of rands and not providing the upkeep of these important facilities that serve hundreds of thousands of people.” Charlene Naidoo, a resident, said that they have been living with the stink for a number of years. She said: We cannot even open our window or eat our food properly because the smell just puts you off. We cannot even have visitors at the house because the smell is toxic and we do not know what danger it poses to us, to be breathing in faeces everyday.” D’sa accused the municipality of putting the lives of residents in danger. “Responsible managers have stated they are only going to source the deodorant and parts for a pump in the next two weeks. The faeces stink has been going on for over a month and people are expected to put up with this,” D’Sa said. He urged the community including pupils and teachers to block the gates of the sewerage works. “Merebank leadership, affected families must take off if they want this be resolved. You must be sick and tired as you are affected because the council decided that they must dump someone else’s faeces in your backyard. There comes a time for the whole Merebank community to stand up to fight this discrimination as the faeces is brought from Amanzimtoti and other Durban areas,” D’Sa said.