Rachel Uys cares for abandoned babies at the Ray of Hope’s – Imisebe Yelanga Babies Home. Uys takes us through her love for children and gives us more insight on her life. Durban North News (DNN): Who is Rachel Uys?
Rachel Uys (RU): I am a South African woman of 62. I’m the youngest of five children, blessed to grow up with Christian parents who put solid values into me. DNN: What do you do for a living and what led you to do that?
RU: I’m blessed to love my job, caring for abandoned and forgotten babies from birth to four plus years old. I was asked to become a Crisis Mother and I have never looked back. DNN: Was helping others always something you wanted to do and why?
RU: I have a genuine heart for any baby that is in crisis. I feel this is my reason for being on the earth to love and care for those who cannot change their circumstances. DNN: Tell us the first interception of starting a baby home and what is your favourite part in helping abandoned children?
RU: Our babie’s home started on 1 September 2009. We were blessed to have a large house, which has been renovated to be used to love and care for six babies and toddlers at a time. We started with one little premature baby girl and the rest, is history. DNN: Who inspires you the most and why?
RU: I’m totally inspired by the other Crisis Mothers that I have interacted with over the past 11 years. Some have been going for over 15 years. They show me everyday, more of how to keep strong when circumstances are against you. The most important thing is the babies. DNN: What book are you currently reading?
RU: I have been reading the old classic, “The Scarlet Pimpernel” by Baroness Orczy. It’s based on a true story of overcoming evil with a little romance thrown in. DNN: What is your favourite movie and why?
RU: My favourite movie of all time is “The Sound of Music”. I love the way this Nun sings her way into the hearts of these seven lost children. My husband of 30 years and I, raised six children ourselves, and they were very special
years.
DNN: What do you prefer doing in your leisure time?
RU: If I have any leisure time waiting at hospital or clinics etc, I read, read, read! I love watching wild animals, and camping in the bush. DNN: What is your favourite dish and why?
RU: My favourite dish is Roast Chicken and lots of veggies. DNN: How are you coping with the Covid-19 pandemic?
RU: We have had an awesome opportunity during the Covid-19 lockdown, to spend more quality time with babies and staff at the Babies Home. We observe strict protocols, but long for the end of the “mask” wearing. DNN: Tell us about of some of your achievements?
RU: My best achievement is the 58 babies and toddlers who have been successfully adopted to be reunified with extended family. DNN: How has working with kids taught you about life?
RU: Working with babies and toddlers is a life-changing experience. They don’t hold grudges, and always enjoy being cuddled; being given special attention. No love shown to them is ever wasted. DNN: What do you spend most of your life doing?
RU: Most of my life I try to keep a very grateful, thankful heart, as it makes the ups and downs of life most enjoyable. DNN: What is your message to the public about abandoned children?
RU: My message to the public about abandoned children is, “life is not fair” bad things happen to good people. Be a positive part of the Babies Home that is in your area. Volunteer to help where you can because your life will never be the same, as you love our lost ones.