Verulam man who allegedly trafficked, kept his stepdaughter as sex slave, raped her repeatedly, used her as prostitute and to create child pornography, is expected to hear about his fate at Durban High Court next month. The judge will be giving a judgement in December in the case after the state and defence wrapped up their closing arguments last week. Before the closing arguments, the 45-year-old accused was asked to show the court the tattoos on his arms and chest and a scar on the thigh. Senior State Advocate, Cheryl Naidu demonstrated why she made that request. She presented a video evidence of an abuse incident and pointed out a tattoo and a scar on the perpetrator in the footage. She said this proved the accused was the abuser as the marks on the man in the video were unique. In his closing arguments,  defence attorney Thiagaraj Pillay said the counts of rape should be combined into a single charge. He also argued against the human trafficking charge, telling the court the child was not kept locked in and could leave the house whenever she wanted to. After the court heard some of the 56 charges were duplicated and could not be sustained, they were amended to 36. About twelve witnesses testified for the state in the case. The accused was arrested on 11 June last year, after the child allegedly told a neighbour what transpired. The accused is facing charges including multiple counts of rape, human trafficking, sexual exploitation of children, possession of child pornography, compelling or causing children to witness sexual acts, sexual grooming of children and creating and distribution of child pornography. He is also charged with child abuse for allegedly not enrolling the victim at school, forcing her to cook and clean and encouraging her to smoke. According to the indictment, the accused had allegedly insisted on having custody of his stepdaughter after her mother died in 2014. The alleged crimes occurred from January 2017 to June 2018 in Ekurhuleni, Overport, Redhill and Verulam, where he moved with the child who was 10-years-old at the time. Verulam residents arrested him on 11 June 2018 when the allegations first surfaced.