A group of men are taking a stand against the second pandemic called gender-based violence (GBV). The group, which call themselves Act Now, are walking from Gauteng to Durban and stopped in Newcastle on 4 November. The group was joined by Mayor Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba who was made an honorary member of the organisation and pledged to join the group on a five kilometre trek through the Newcastle CBD. Their message is strong and simple. “You can’t stop our move.”
Tebogo Lerule the groups passionate founder said: “We are an organisation that was started in Gauteng but we are establishing ourselves in all nine provinces and making sure that we create safe spaces for both women and children. We have a lot of challenges that us men are causing towards women. There is too much rape, abuse and too many children who are murdered on a daily basis.” Lerule said that the groups stance is to contribute towards creating awareness around GBV and getting victims to come out and speak out about the challenges that they are facing. “We find that most women are in marriages and relationships but they do not want to come out because they think that they are protecting their families, marriages and children. The sad part is that most of them come out of that family or marriage in a coffin and the next thing they are singing ‘amagugu’ someone has passed on.” He said that there are ten of them and they call themselves the act ten. They walked all the way from Heidelburg and are on their way to Durban. “Our stance is to a district in KwaZulu-Natal where five women were murdered this year by a serial killer. We are standing up against GBV and femicide. We are shining a spotlight on those women and we will also be having a candlelight ceremony and saying to the families “we see you, and we support you beyond this.” We are saying, can we not work together? We would like to work with government and try and make sure to create safe spaces for women and children. We cannot allow abuse, killing and human trafficking,” said Lerule. Lerule also called upon the men who were present to act as a shield for women and to help be part of the solution and not the problem. The group and local supporters made their way through the town on Allen Street singing and raising their placards high. Their message is clear: ” Stop gender-based violence and femicide.”