Steady rains received in KwaZulu-Natal over the past 48 hours (31 October to 1 November) has had a meaningful impact on at least four dams, three of which are on the South Coast. From 31 October to 1 November, Umzinto Dam, in the middle south coast, gained approximately 19 percent from weekend rains while the level of EJ Smith Dam, also in the middle south coast, increased by approximately 5 percent. The level of the third dam in this region – Nungwane – increased by 2 percent. Shami Harichunder, Corporate Stakeholder Manager at Umgeni Water said: ” This is good news for the south coast, especially as the December recess approaches when water demand and consumption generally increase due to an influx of holiday makers and people working out of the area returning home. On 2 November, the level of Umzinto Dam was at approximately 82 percent, EJ Smith Dam was at 93 percent and Nungwane Dam at 80 percent. If rains continue, all three dams are expected to be full to capacity by the weekend. ” He said that rainfall received at five stations on the south coast at the weekend, namely Umzinto, Nungwane, EJ Smith, Mtwalume and Amanzimtoti, amounted to approximately 170 mm. Meanwhile, forecasts by the South African Weather Service and the International Research Institute for Climate and Society suggest that above-average rainfall is expected over South Africa’s east coast from November 2020 to January 2021. Rains already received from late October appear to be in keeping with this prediction. “In the Upper Mgeni System’s catchments, approximately 290 mm rainfall was received over the weekend at various measuring stations. Catchments in the Upper Mgeni System feed three dams, namely Mearns, Spring Grove and Midmar. This rainfall has led to Mearns Dam gaining 9 percent to reach a level of 62 percent while Midmar Dam remained at 90 percent and Spring Grove at 35 percent,” said Harichunder. He explained that in the Lower Mgeni System, a total of approximately 125 mm rainfall was received on Saturday and Sunday. Nagle Dam benefited the most from this rainfall, resulting in its level increasing by approximately 6 percent to reach 76 percent on 2 November. The levels of the other two dams in the Lower Mgeni System – Inanda and Albert Falls – remained unchanged at 76 percent and 28 percent respectively. However , the amount of water in Albert Falls Dam is of concern to Umgeni Water because it is insufficient to meet the needs of its supply area, which is within the eThekwini region. “Insufficient water resources in Albert Falls Dam – which is decreasing by 1 percent every week – has led to augmentation through pumping from Inanda Dam becoming necessary. In the north of eThekwini, approximately 90 mm rainfall was received within the Hazelmere System on Saturday and Sunday. Hazelmere Dam is at a stable 38 percent while further north, at Maphumulo, iMvutshane Dam is at 88 percent. The wall at Hazelmere Dam has been raised, resulting in its storage capacity being more than doubled. On the old measure, this dam would have been at 80 percent. ” At Ixopo, 17 mm of rainfall was recorded over the weekend, resulting in the Home Farm Dam increasing by 3 percent to its current 49 percent. The three dams in the uThukela System, namely Woodstock, Spioenkop and Wagendrift, are at levels of 75 percent, 80 percent and 81 percent respectively,” said Harichunder. In the six systems in Umgeni Water’s service area – Upper Mgeni, Lower Mgeni, South, North, Ixopo and uThukela – storage illustrates that there is sufficient water to meet the full demands of Umgeni Water’s seven customers, namely eThekwini Metro, Msunduzi Local Municipality and uMgungundlovu, Ugu, iLembe, Harry Gwala and uThukela District Municipalities. ” This means there is no risk of supply failure or protracted supply interruptions occurring in the near future and the short-term,” said Harichunder.