KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Bheki Ntuli has called for an urgent meeting with the freight industry following the horrific crash on the N3 involving two trucks and a minibus taxi which tragically claimed the lives of 14 people in Escourt on 9 November. The department said that 14 people died on impact, including the driver of the taxi and that another person was rushed to the Ladysmith Provincial Hospital with life threatening injuries. Ntuli said that preliminary reports from the scene indicate that a minibus taxi was travelling along the N3 from Durban heading towards Gauteng when it became involved in the collision. It is alleged that the taxi was driving behind the first truck, with the second track behind the taxi travelling in the same direction. The truck that was in front of the taxi jack-knifed causing the taxi to crash into it, and the second truck that was travelling behind the minibus taxi then crashed into the taxi killing 14 people, 13 women and one man . Ntuli said: “We have also called for an urgent meeting with the freight industry in order to address the high number of crashes involving heavy vehicles. Collectively, as government, the private sector and civil society, we must work together to end the scourge of road fatalities. The loss of one life is one too many but the death toll of this magnitude in one accident is very devastating.” “Most fatal accidents that occur on our roads are as a result of driver behaviour, fatigue and human error. I call on motorists to ensure that they drive with extreme caution especially during rainy weather conditions due to poor visibility, drivers must check their tyre pressure, service their vehicles regularly and ensure that their vehicles are roadworthy before embarking on a trip. Importantly, drivers must rest adequately and take breaks in-between especially when travelling long distances,” he added. Ntuli also urged motorists to be extra vigilant as there are hail storms and heavy rains being experienced in most parts of the province, which could lead to localised flooding and reduced visibility. “We send our sincere condolences to the bereaved families and vow to work even harder to improve visibility of law enforcement and road-user education which is highly critical in order to put an end to the carnage on our roads,” Ntuli said. As per the initial report received, the Ladysmith Herald had reported that 15 people had died, but the survivor of the crash is in a stable condition. The vehicles were taken to Midway RTI Estcourt for further investigation. Both truck drivers survived.