The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) Durban region gathered on Thursday, 26 November to hand over a memorandum of grievances to health management at the eThekwini health district office. The community health workers are demanding permanent employment and that government do away with the annual contracts. Nehawu regional secretary, Prince Mthalane said: “We are to submit the memorandum to the district management regarding the conditions of services of the community health workers. We want them to be employed permanently and enjoy the fruits of their labour like any other worker.” Mthalane said the government considers community health workers part and parcel, and a very important component of the healthcare system. “Our biggest challenge is the contracts that get renewed annually. Some of the workers have been on the system for more than 15 years – getting a stipend, these people should be permanently employed because the system needs them,” he said. The workers affiliated with the union said they are not happy with how the government treats health care workers considering how risky and tough their job is. Lindiwe Buthelezi, secretary of the healthcare community workers in KwaZulu-Natal said: “What has discouraged us the most is that the government came through for the workers in Gauteng province, they were hired permanently, but we in KZN did not. The government is being unfair and we are not being taken care of.” Buthelezi said they have been in the frontline from the beginning of Covid-19 when it was more risky. “Some of our colleagues have lost their lives through contracting diseases during their field work, only to get paid pennies,” she said. The memorandum was received by Nontethelelo Maphumulo, HR district manager on behalf of health district management. Nehawu said they are prepared to go on a full blown strike if their grievances are not taken seriously. “We will intensify our actions and shut down all services should we not get a proper response,” said Mthalane.  