 The oThongathi Museum Committee has opted to downscale this year’s commemoration of 160th anniversary of the arrival of Indentured Indian labourers in South Africa. Tholsi Mudly, committee’s chairperson, said that due to the Covid-19 lockdown regulations they have decided to have a prayer with a few people. She said: “Instead of having a big celebration ceremony, we will have a prayer. We are sending out messages about the significance of this auspicious day to the media and the community. It is going to be the first anniversary celebration without residents, speakers, singing and dance.” Mudly said that they are inviting about 10 senior members of the community to attend a prayer to pay tribute to the pioneers. “Every year we choose a different site in Tongaat to honour the Indentured Indians. This year we are still to receive confirmation about the venue,” she said. Mudly advised the public especially youth to acknowledge the significant role that the pioneers played in building the country. She quoted a paragraph from her book written about the pioneers titled ‘Living the Legacy’: “Our forefathers arrived in Natal with just their lotas or chombus (small containers), two dhotis (garments for men), a jacket, a cap and a turban. The women had two saris (garments) and a jacket each and some fortunate ones, a few coins. Within a few years these very people were able to build places of worship and schools. All this was achieved through sheer tenacity, selflessness and community spirit. Later through financial assistance from Indian merchants, traders and sometimes employers , higher education institutions were built. There were many Indian men and women who made generous contributions, be it finance or land for the building of schools, places of worship and sporting facilities. The elders realised that education would release their descendants from the shackles of poverty. This proved to be true as education did afford many Indians the opportunity to rise above their circumstances.” Mudly said that the anniversary day reminds them all about the trials and tribulations that the Indentured Indians underwent. “Despite the hardship that they were in, the majority of the labourers was able to see to the needs of the public. What you see today is the result of the hard work put in by the pioneers,” she said. Mudly called on public to remember the contributions made by the pioneers. “They were the building blocks of this country. They tilled the land, they cut the sugarcane, they took care of their employers’ children, they served the rich in hotels, they dug out the soil for the tram and railway lines and they toiled in the coal mines. No matter how menial the task, no matter how much the Indian was taunted, the Indentured Indian persevered to ensure that his family lived as comfortably as possible,” she said. Mudly said that even if the indians had to live on mealie meal porridge they would hold their heads up high. “Most of the things we have today achieved mostly by the sacrifices made by the labourers. “We are grateful to them for making a difficult decision to leave their motherland so that they could pave the way for their descendants,” she said. Mudly appealed to the young people to strive for success and emulate pioneers.