Calling for people of Indian descent in South Africa to stay at home, ‘Park by the Pozie’ (PBTP) is the first ever, organised movement of the South African Indian community to express their unhappiness after they believe that they are constantly side-lined, marginalised, discriminated against and disrespected. “Park” being the Indian slang for ‘stay’ and “Pozie” being the Indian slang for ‘home’, literally translates to “stay at home”. The movement is calling for a one day protest scheduled for Saturday 12 December. This movement is the brainchild of the newly formed National Indian Congress of South Africa (NICSA). “The protest will be respectful and peaceful, in keeping with the norms and values of the Indian community who value peace and the rule of law” said the NICSA spokesperson and comedian Karou Charou (KC). “This year we celebrate 160 years since the arrival of our forefathers in South Africa. We may have arrived as slaves, indentured labourers and merchants but our contributions have been enormous. Be it in retail, education, medical, pharmaceutical, or the construction sectors, Indians have shown themselves to be innovative, hardworking, astute and visionary. Numerous Indian struggle stalwarts, past and present, helped to liberate this country, yet we were ‘not white enough’ in the old regime and find ourselves ‘not black enough’ in the democratic South Africa,” said KC. “In the workplace we are forced to train cadres and under-qualified personnel who then become our superiors whilst we still have to do their jobs. It’s unfair that our children are subjected to more stringent criteria to obtain entrance to tertiary education. Transit-camps and informal settlements are positioned in and around Indian communities which leads to devaluation of properties,” said KC. The boycott was sparked by many factors, according to the KC. He said that one of these factors is the threat of attacks during violent protest action by those living in informal settlements. “When informal settlements embark on protest action, the first targets of their wrath are their neighbouring Indian communities, yet when they are in need Indian people are the first responders. Political leaders like Julius Malema are constantly attacking the Indian community, labelling us as racists and people who ‘ill-treat’ blacks thus leading to antagonism towards the Indian community often resulting in calls for us to ‘go back to India.’ “We are a frustrated group, at the end of our tether, but we also accept a portion of the blame as we have over the years, out of tolerance for others, allowed this to happen,” he said. This will initially be a one day protest scheduled for Saturday 12 December and will be concentrated on the eThekwini Municipality where the bulk of the South African Indian population reside. “Durban in fact is home to the largest concentration of Indians outside the motherland of India. PBTP is essentially an economic boycott. The Indian community knows that, despite the fact that they number just 1.8 percent of the country’s population, they contribute significantly to the economy in general and to KwaZulu-Natal and Durban in particular. Indian ratepayers are the majority contributors to the city’s coffers, yet when it comes to service delivery, their areas are overlooked. Indian households are being hit with exorbitant electricity, water and rates tariffs and are threatened with being ‘cut-off’ if not paid” said KC. The NICSA is of the view that the Indian community provides significant support to the entertainment industry in Durban including organising and participating in live events, fairs and exhibitions. “Case in point, the most successful events hosted at the Moses Mabhida stadium have been Indian musical events. Cruise-liners will probably not dock at the port of Durban if it were not for Indians who regularly make up the majority of passengers. Upmarket venues such as the International Convention Centre host the most lavish Indian weddings and events. The Durban July, one of the biggest horse races on the continent, would probably not have achieved that status were it not for Indian punters. The eThekwini Municipality houses two casinos, and who do you think makes up the bulk of patrons at both casinos? This is the economic power we know the Indian community wields in Durban” he said. The one-day boycott is said to prove that the South African Indian community is armed with “economic power” and will serve as a reminder to the eThekwini Municipality and the country’s government that the Indian community is a part of the fabric of SA and needs to be treated and respected as such. The boycott will see the Indian community of eThekwini stay away from the city’s major hotspots such as the malls, casinos, cinemas, parks and beaches amongst others, while township and Indian businesses would be visited as normal. Also, people are not stopped from going to work as the point of this boycott is not to hurt the economy. This is the first major project of this body which hopes to champion the rights of the SA Indian population. “If the municipal and national authorities don’t heed our call and engage with us, we intend to embark on a number of other strategies to ensure that our concerns are addressed,” said KC.