When we turn the calendar to reach Deepavali, we know that we are in the thick of matric exams and other pupils are also preparing for their final test sitting. What also hits home is that the festive season is upon us. All of these calendar events look and feel different this year, it has been a challenging year after all. Deepavali, which is traditionally known as the celebration of light over darkness or good over evil reminds us that as we tread through the Covid-19 pandemic we need to keep that light burning bright within us. Yes, it has been a difficult year for everyone, the coronavirus certainly does not pick or choose gender, nationality or race, this is something that we are all facing equally. Right now in South Africa, we are feeling pandemic fatigue and want to return to enjoying some of our old habits. That is a natural feeling, yet we have to be mindful that should we embark on irresponsible behaviour, then we will all face this pandemic for a prolonged period. As we look forward to celebrating Deepavali with the exchange of traditional sweets, being adorned in new garments and fancy jewellery, we also should take a moment to remember those who are ill or have lost loved ones during this year. Take a moment to say a special prayer to help heal the world and for those who need that extra help. We also need to be mindful when visiting family and friends – perhaps even consider waiting it out this year to keep our elders safe. As painful as it maybe, we need to be responsible in our behaviour so that the pandemic will pass and we can come out stronger. One of my favourite aspects of the Ramayan (the pastime of which Deepavali is centred) is the loving relationships that are forged. We find Srimati Sita Devi being a beautiful princess, living the life of luxury and one of abundance. Yet, she immediately forgoes her pleasures and riches for a life of simplicity in the forest. For me, this is an important learning even if we have all the comforts, we need to remain humble. It is through that spirit that we are able to connect in a true and authentic manner. Sometimes ego gets in the way of wonderful relationships, arguments take over and it turns to a power struggle. Keeping in mind the humble nature of a human being is important. Another wonderful offering from the Ramayan is the strength of family values. With life being so busy, never forget to devote time for a phone call to an elder. Our diaries fill up and days quickly pass, yet there are senior relatives who maybe looking forward to a phone call, and it will take just five minutes out of a busy schedule to share love to someone who longs for it. These values and relationships can never be replaced with the hussle of everyday living. As we enter into a beautiful season of love, joy, light and happiness, I wish you peace and love. Please do be especially responsible during the 2020 Deepavali observance, spread light through prayer and be sure to follow the necessary protocols to keep our loved ones safe during the pandemic. About the columnist : Krsangi Radhe is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching. She is an NLP practitioner, author, time-line therapist, mindset coach helping women, children and couples. She is a teacher and motivational speaker.