Wentworth SAPS have commended PT Alarms Tactical Officers for their speedy response to a complaint which led to the arrests and seizure of the weapons on Travencore Drive in the Merebank Ridge. Captain MP Gumede, Wentworth SAPS communications officer, said that the security officers were on duty when they received a call about a vehicle that was parked outside on Narbada Road and two males who were running up a passage. He said that the officers proceeded along the roads checking both entry and exits from the area. “They saw the driver passing something over his head to the rear of the vehicle. The driver jumped out of the BMW and the officer at the scene noticed that there was a firearm clearly visible underneath the driver’s black sweater. The driver was ordered to lie down and a fiream, a black Norinco with seven 9mm live ammunition, was confiscated immediately,” Gumede said. The security officers called for back-up and members from Wentworth SAPS Vispol in the company of Lt/Colonel Myburg, Durban South K9 Unit, and officers from PT Alarms came for assistance. There were four other male suspects inside the vehicle who were searched after more officers had arrived at the scene. Gumede said: “More items were seized in the possession of the suspects including a three-star Okapi knife, a China stainless steel knife, a black Itel cellphone, a knife with a brown handle and a USA police ejector teargas canister.” The male suspects arrested are aged between 27 and 31 and were detained for possession of an unlicensed firearm, illegal possession of ammunition and possession of dangerous weapons. Gumede said: “The security officers from PT Alarms were commended for attending to the complaint swiftly and ensuring that criminals were caught as well as recovering a firearm that could have been used anywhere to commit crimes or take a life together with the other dangerous weapons were seized.” Dhevan Govindasamy, PT Alarms spokesperson, said: “By joining forces with police and residents, they can make inroads in fighting crime. The PT Alarms Tactical Officers are commended on their bravery and speed in attending to the complaint.” The members who were there for assistance and backup were also praised by the station commander and the management on a job well done. The community is urged to report any suspicious activity to Crimestop on 08600 10111 or Wentworth SAPS on
031 451 6240/6241/6242.