The residents of Crossmoor are up in arms and are calling for visible police patrolling after a family was attacked during an early morning robbery on 29 October. The uncle and nephew were chopped with bush-knives during the robbery. A 62-year-old pensioner, Michael Govender and his nephew, 23-year-old Cleophas Govender are applauded for their bravery and heroic actions as they acted to prevent the suspects from entering the second story of their home, in order to protect their family. Confirming the incident, communications officer of Chatsworth SAPS, Captain Cheryl Pillay said: “During the early hours of Thursday morning, 29 October, a family living in the Crossmoor area became victims of a house robbery. It is alleged that suspects had broken down their door to enter their home. During an altercation, two victims that were injured were taken to hospital for medical treatment. The suspects fled the scene with household items.” The family said, it was about 3am when six armed men clad in balaclavas entered the Blue Bonnet Crescent home and accosted the family. The uncle and nephew duo tried to fight the suspects off but were unfortunately ambushed as they were outnumbered. According to a family member, Claudette Govender, many thoughts ran through their minds when they heard people banging and booting their door. She said: “We heard dogs barking continuously and alerted our neighbours through the window who willingly assisted in drawing attention by screaming. However the suspects were merciless and continued to assault my family and managed to steal our TV and two cell phones before fleeing.” Michael said that the attack happened within minutes. He sustained chop wounds to his head, thumb and back while his nephew Cleophas was chopped on his arm, back and thumb. He said: “My nephew and I managed to fight two men; however we were overpowered when more of them started to approach us. We are calling for urgent police patrols in this area. There have been numerous break-ins in other homes in this area, thankfully not all were as bad as ours, but if something is not done about it, the matter could escalate and someone could lose their life.” There are four exits in the area which criminals use after they commit their crime. The residents are calling for a satellite station if police patrols cannot occur. DA ward 71 branch chairperson, Fatima Ismail said that the community of Crossmoor have experienced constant robberies and are frustrated. She said: “The railway line is used as an escape route to the informal settlement. In the past two to three months, we have had cable theft of the railway lines and the community is fearful. We have been requesting for fencing which will be a deterrent to the criminals coming into homes but still nothing has happened.” She said that crime is spiralling out of control and nothing is being done to protect families. Police are investigating a case of armed robbery. Anyone who can assist police with investigations can contact Chatsworth SAPS on 031 451 4208 or call Crime Stop on 086 001 0111.