As the killing of people and rape declined, police minister Bheki Cele lambasted alcohol as a causative factor to violent cases recorded during the period of the lockdown between July and September. Releasing the crime statistics of the second quarter on Friday, Cele said that about 179 attempts of murder, 829 assault grievous bodily harm (GBH) and 747 rape cases were reported, nationally. He said that the 179 murder attempts were alcohol induced. “Over a thousand incidences of murder, attempted murder, rape and assault took place in or outside liquor outlets such as bars, taverns, shebeens and nightclubs. These figures make it impossible to deny the true effects of alcohol abuse,” said Cele. He said that he was against the negative effect alcohol has on communities. Cele said: “This is despite my views being unpopular in some quarters of society. But these crime statistics continue to vindicate our actions as the police to clamp down on illegal alcohol trading.” Nationally, there was a decline in the number of people killed as reported murders declined by 339, between July and September. Cele said that sexual offences decreased by 16.8 percent. “Despite this decline it was still a high number of people who were raped. The other thing that keeps on surprising us and we will work hard on it is gender-based violence (GBV),” said Cele. He assured citizens that police are working hard to clamp down on gender-based violence (GBV) and that they need to rein in those behind these crimes. Cele said that while many citizens are still working from home, due to the nationwide lockdown, incidents of home invasions have increased by 8.5 percent. The stats also revealed that cash in transit heist (CIT) climbed to 24 in this quarter, when compared to previous quarter. Cele said that this means that more needs to be done to infiltrate the armed robbers to their knees. “The provincial and national integrated CIT teams have their work cut out for them. This includes arresting some of their colleagues who are alleged to be involved or assisting these criminal gangs,” he said. Other crime categories, attempted murder increased by 1.8 percent, assault to do grievous bodily harm decreased by 12.4 percent, common assault declined by 5.5 percent, common robbery dropped by 25.3 percent and reduction of 13 percent in the robbery with aggravating circumstances. All property related crimes decreased by 18.7 percent.