The management of the Verulam-based 1860 Indentured Indian Labourers Foundation is over the moon after the eThekwini Municipality council gave the green light to the construction of a monument to preserve the history of the labourers in the country. Anand Jayrajh of the foundation, said that the monument aims to recognise the anniversary of the arrival of Indian labourers in South Africa. He said: “We received an excellent response from the municipal council. We are very excited by the news and it’s now full steam ahead with no looking back.” Jayrajh said that everything was set for the construction. Indentured labourers were imported cheaply from India to the then Colony of Natal to toil on the sugar plantations of the British colonial farmers and to develop the sugar industry which rescued the province from financial disaster. Ward 106 councillor Johnson Chetty, who was invited in the ceremony, lauded the move by the foundation of honouring the labourers. He said: “They (labourers) built schools, medical facilities, places of worship and some even bought agricultural land. Although they were poor, they never asked for handouts or demanded concessions from the authorities. Those simple, uneducated people who came from India with just the clothes on their backs, produced several generations of highly accomplished professionals, artisans and business people that still play a pivotal role in the economy of Durban and the country as a whole.” Chetty said that since slavery was abolished and the colonial planters were deprived of cheap labour, they turned to a system known as “indenture” whereby a labourer was employed for a fixed period at a pre-determined wage, which could also include ration and accommodation. He said that labourers were hardworking people who saved from the pittance they earned. “It is vital for Verulam to have its own commemoration site because historically, the town was home to hundreds who relocated over a century ago. When labourers settled in the Colony of Natal, they were subjected to extreme hardship, poverty, inhumane living and working conditions. They displayed resilience and survived against all odds, since the majority of them chose to remain in Natal as opposed to accepting repatriation back to India at the conclusion of their indenture,” said Chetty. He added that the practice continued for a period of 51 years from 1860 to 1911 and there were about 150 000 indentured labourers that had been brought to Natal.