The Durban Fashion Fair (#DFF2020) model training boot camp is gearing up for the ultimate finale that will take place at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre on 11 December. Presented by the eThekwini Municipality the project aims at training young models who come from the greater eThekwini District. The boot camp which is a 10-week programme was meant to start in June, however, due to the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, organisers were forced to start later in the year. These aspiring models have been provided with invaluable training – from runway skills, posing and posture presentation and photographic editorial techniques and all things “model etiquette”. This will give them the tools to reach for their dreams and take full advantage of the opportunity afforded to them to participate in high profile fashion shows kick-starting with the DFF. Furthermore, each week, guest speakers are invited to address the new face models who are specialists in their field, from how to market themselves on social media, to following clothing trends, to makeup and hair care and eating healthy. To highlight some topics, each week, they are also put through a fitness boot camp. Speaking to the Durban North News, Stanley Okwulieaku, the modelling and ramp instructor of the boot camp said being in the industry and having travelled over the country, he has much to offer in terms of how to train these  young aspiring models. Okwulieaku said the young girls and boys have never been on a ramp before so the 10-week programme will gear them up as to how to get ready for the finale. “These models have been selected within the eThekwini Municipality; they come from different locations and backgrounds. They have never modelled before but have the passion for modelling. Most of these models have never worn heels and formal shoes, so that is where we come in and teach them how to walk, pose and teach them how to carry themselves in the outside world,” Okwulieaku said. One of the models, Nokukhanya Bulose, 23, said it is amazing to have such opportunities such as the DFF. “I don’t think you can go anywhere and be given such an opportunity. The trainers (Khwezi & Stanley) have contributed a lot in terms of our confidence and what is expected of us and what we need to do. We obviously need to put in the work but they have been so supporting. My confidence has grown from the day I started, now you can tell the way we walk and the way we do certain things has changed drastically,” said Bulose. While Uviwe Thonga,19, who is a student at eThekwini City College said the DFF is such a great platform for them as aspiring models to learn new tactics that will help them advance their career in modelling: “I have learned something new as a model, starting from the posture, the way you carry yourself even if we are not at the actual bootcamp.” Malik Ibrahim, 24, from Chesterville added that the whole experience has been an eye-opener: “I’ve always loved fashion, hence, that is why I decided to audition for this year’s DFF and lucky enough, I was selected to be part of the show. The bootcamp has moulded us into being the right quality models that are needed in the fashion industry. We also have workout session where we are taught how to maintain our diet and so forth,” added Ibrahim.