In a ground-breaking move, eThekwini mayor, Cllr Mxolisi Kaunda launched a state-of-the-art Forecast Early Warning System (FEWS) at the ICC on Friday, 13 November. EThekwini’s FEWS system is the first of its kind disaster management and data monitoring tool
on the African continent. The web-based app called Coastal-Live is the first step
in making information and warnings of extreme weather events available to all citizens. Present at the launch were Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, councillor Sipho Kaunda, chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Economic Development, Thanduxolo Sabelo, chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Housing and Infrastructure, Beryl Khanyile, deputy city manager Human Settlements and Engineering, Randeer Kasserchand, deputy head of the Coastal Storm Water and Catchment Management Unit and other city officials. FEWS will enable the city to better manage and mitigate the effects of flood-related disasters arising from extreme weather patterns by simulating flood scenarios, environmental water quality, coastal erosion and wave behavior. Access to reliable weather forecast data allows the FEWS system to predict the effects of natural disasters ahead of time, allowing enough time for the information to filter down to emergency services. Kaunda said that since 2017, approximately 100 incidents related to flooding in the municipality required disaster intervention. In April and December of 2019, the city experienced heavy rainfall which claimed scores of lives and destroyed property and infrastructure. “The launch of this early warning system demonstrates that as a city, we are not only recognising the risk posed by climate change to our lives and livelihoods, but we are putting practical measures to mitigate climate change disasters,” said Kaunda.
EThekwini is the first municipality to implement a system that allows interaction between river and coastal hydraulics as well as water quality applications. “The fact that most of our residents have limited access to technology, we had to come up with a system that would suit our circumstances. The implementation of this system is going to help us save lives and limit damage to our infrastructure. We have a great task to educate our people about the dangers posed by extreme weather we have witnessed recently,” said Kaunda. Currently, the municipality receives the early weather warnings from the South African Weather Service and distributes it to role-players and decision makers through the Emergency Mobilising and Communications Centre (EMACC). This is done through bulk SMS notifications. Social platforms such as the municipality’s Facebook page and website
are also used for disseminating warning messages to the community. The new FEWS makes use of rain gauges and radar in catchment areas to monitor rain and sea water rise. The FEWS system identifies threats in advance to informal settlements by monitoring adjacent river levels and other storm water systems that directly affect them. Notifications are triggered when the system produces warnings after certain levels are breached, allowing a better response. “More than 200 hotspots have been identified and monitored through the FEWS system. The near future is earmarked to develop a similar early warning for coastal disasters with risk hotspots identified,” said the city. Kasserchand said the eThekwini Climate Change Strategy has identified a positive rise in temperature and rainfall into the year 2065 and a 500mm increase in rainfall between 2065 and 2100, meaning intense storms will occur more frequently than expected and evident in the weather patterns seen in eThekwini in the past decade. “In 2013, in anticipation of an increased risk of damaging storms in the metro, the city’s Engineering Unit set out to better manage storms. Investigations that followed while reviewing global best practices indicated that the solution was a marriage between engineering skills and Information Technology. A team of technical professionals from the Engineering Unit (Coastal, Stormwater and Catchment Management Department) advanced this idea into a structured, first in Africa, FEWS,” said Kasserchand. He said initially intended for early flood warnings, eThekwini saw potential to apply this system to other early warnings such as water quality, risk assessments, coastal and real time data management. Hence, Flood Early Warning System evolved into FEWS.
“An early warning system needs a network of good relationships for success and is not confined to one office space, individual, department or country. The eThekwini FEWS team has joined a global Flood Climate Change Working Group to share information across borders on unique challenges and to ensure that best practice principles are achieved in terms of disaster management response for eThekwini. “ said Kasserchand. The flood early warnings are currently operational and are assisting the city in managing potential flood disasters. Kaunda said: “The leadership of eThekwini Municipality, commit to promote affordable and clean energy that is accessible to vulnerable communities. All these initiatives will reduce the negative impact of climate change disasters.” He said the state-of-the-art system will save the lives of vulnerable people in eThekwini. “The timely dissemination of these alerts could be a matter of life and death during an emergency which is why it is important to have an efficient system,” said Kaunda. Having entered the rainy season, the city said that it is committed to intensifying educational programmes and device strategies to empower all communities to prevent the loss of lives from floods.