Vigilant Durban Central SAPS officers acted quickly and arrested four suspects for robbery and possession of suspected stolen property after the gang allegedly scammed and robbed an unsuspecting victim, on Monday. A Seaview woman claims she was drugged after she put on a mask given to her by the gang on Sunday and woke up to find herself in central Durban, on Monday. Captain Muzi Maphumulo, communications officer at Durban Central SAPS said: “It is alleged that on Sunday at approximately 2pm, the complainant received a call from an unknown lady while at home in Seaview who enquired why her Lewis account was unpaid. The complainant claims she informed the caller that she did not have money as she was unemployed. “The caller told the complainant that they do provide assistance to those who are struggling to pay their accounts to get employment so that they can pay up their debts.”
Maphumulo said that the caller allegedly informed the complainant of an available job at Durban and arranged an interview. “The caller informed the complainant that the job offer was to be taken immediately and was offered to be collected from home to attend the job interview,” He said. According to Maphumulo, the complainant was fetched from home by a lady driving a white Almera sedan. “The driver offered the complainant a mask to put on as she did not have any, of which the complainant collapsed as soon as she had put it on. The complainant only woke up on Monday at around 5am and realised that she was drugged, and that the car was driving in Durban CBD. She noticed that the vehicle had three other passengers. “She also noted that her bag, wig and cellphone had been taken from her. The complainant saw the marked police vehicle passing and flagged it. The police responded and stopped the car driven by the suspects. The police arrested four suspects, one female and three males, aged 28 to 35 years for robbery and possession of property suspected to be stolen.
Police recovered three cellphones which the suspects could not account for,” Cpt Maphumulo added. The suspects will appear in Durban Magistrate’s Court soon. Maphumulo said: “Durban Central Police wants to appeal to the community to be alert for fraudsters who offer them jobs and then robs them. “People must take note of the many scams and frauds which are doing rounds which includes job scams. The community should not entertain these thugs.”