Newly elected ward 36 councillor, Shontel de Boer is ready to hit the ground running following her undisputed win in the by-elections last week. De Boer won the ward with over 4075 votes (91.36 percent) leaving the African National Congress (ANC) with just 300 votes (6.72 percent). After serving as a PR councillor for the past eleven months following the resignation of former ward councillor Shaun Ryley, de Boer said that she cannot wait to bring positive changes in the ward. Ward 36 comprises of Park Hill, Riverside, Beachwood, Prospect Hall, Athlone, Broadway, Braidene and part of Greenwood Park. Speaking on her recent win, de Boer said that her journey has been quite challenging but fortunately for her, she now has an understanding of what is expected out of her as a ward councillor. “I understand the challenges and problems the ward is faced with. One of those challenges are abandoned properties, within the ward. We have a lot of buildings which are vandalised and we do not know who their owners are, this impacts negatively in our community. “We have a lot of street lights that are not working in this area which is quite challenging to get them repaired because of cable theft. Water bursts are also an issue, we have been experiencing water wars in upgrading the Cornubia water pipeline. The current shut-offs and putting the water back on again are resulting in the continuing water pipe bursts. Particularly, in Umgeni Park area we have initiated the asbestos cement (AC) pipe project which is a matter of urgency. However, with the budget constraints I don’t see it happening anytime soon,” she said. She said that her mission as the ward councillor is to at least do one road a year to accommodate the capital improvement plan (CIP) budget so that they can actually complete the entire project in the ward in order to stop the water wars. “With the power outages caused by load shedding, we continually had four maintenance of our electricity infrastructure that again led to budget constraints,” said de Boer. De Boer said that the good thing about ward 36 is that it has a lot of non-profit organisations (NGO’s) and organisations that are willing to come together with the council to make Durban North a better community and for that, she is grateful. “My next move is basically to find out all the things I couldn’t find out as a PR councillor in the ward like the people that are employed by the EPWP project because I’ve got a lot of work for them. I am going to continue fighting for the residents of Durban North to have proper services because our service delivery has been very poor this year,” she said. According to de Boer, Covid-19 and budget constraints might have resulted in the city having problems in rendering services needed by the community this year. “My other priority is to work with the Greenwood Park SAPS as it falls under ward 36. Waterkant Road has some major issues, there is a broken fence between the M4 and Waterkant Road that we are battling to get repaired. This road is on the list for a reticulation project to happen. We also have another problem, the circle lanes that continuously get overgrown which the municipality has rejected for some time, it becomes problematic for cyclists who use the road,” De Boer added.She said that there has been a request for speed calming in some of the sections of the roads in ward 36 and hopes the roads department will see or acknowledge those issues. “We have some strategic moves on how to get rid of the beggars that are almost at every robot. We need to work with the police and various stakeholders to actually get involved and find out what the problem is with the beggars and why they continually make their way back to the same spot. I have actually had a chat with one or two of them and they have a really bad background. So it is a matter of rehabilitating them and getting them proper housing. A lot of them have very challenging issues and I have been battling to get the department of social welfare involved to try and get them to assist because these are social issues. Most of them do not have identity documents so it becomes difficult to find employment or even take their children to school,” added de Boer.