The Shahumna Centre, is inviting the community of Durban to a market day on Saturday, 5 December at the Action in Autism premises, 105 Haig Road, Parkhill Durban. The market day is a project by the Shahumna Centre, that forms part of the Action in Autism Centre, offering a two-year embedded skills and business programme for Autistic adults. Khaya Mkhwanazi, the manager of the Shahumna Centre said: “This market day will be the first of its kind for Action in Autism and it is our hope that it will continue to be a bi-annual event at the centre.” He said that it will be run completely by the young adults at the centre who have spent the final two quarters of the year preparing for it. “They are preparing sensory tools and goods to be sold as well as preparing our most popular recipes from our weekly pop-up shop,” Mkhwanazi said. The Shahumna Centre is just one of Action in Autism’s many projects. The organisation’s other flagship project, the Action in Autism Early Intervention Centre, provides early intervention and therapy to those children whose families cannot afford the high costs of private services. The market aims to raise much-needed funds for the organisation, in order to continue these services, as well as other services provided by the organisation-a free Diagnostic clinic, a Skills Transference programme for parents, educators and professionals, and on-going resources and support for parents and care-givers of Autistic people. Expect to find baked goods and teas prepared by the students of the Shahumna Centre, high-quality coffee provided by Coastal Coffee Roasters, pre-loved clothing, plants, quality children’s clothing, a jumping castle and kiddies’ treats. Action in Autism hopes to welcome the surrounding communities to enjoy a day out with Autistic people in order to showcase our services and create partnerships with individuals and organisations who are interested in supporting the organisation and the programmes offered. Action in Autism welcomes support through cash or kind, or through volunteering. If you would like to attend the Market, to make a donation of pre-loved clothing, plants, household goods, to book a table to trade, support a child, or for more information about the services offered by the organisation, please call 031 563 3039, email  info@actioninautism.org.za or visit the website at www.actioninautism.org.za