Monday, 16 November, was celebrated as a significant day in the history of South Africa, as it marked the arrival of the first indentured labourers in South Africa. The event that was organised by the 1860 Heritage Centre in partnership with the Kwazulu-Natal provincial government, was attended by KZN premier Sihle Zikalala, Finance MEC Ravi Pillay and Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu. The celebration kicked off at 9am with a multi-faith prayer at the 1860 commemorative monument site at the Durban beachfront. Thereafter, KZN premier Sihle Zikalala and guests moved to the 1860 Heritage Centre for a formal programme. Zikalala was pleased to lead and be a part of the 160 years since the arrival of the first indentured labourers in South Africa. He said: “As the South African society, we are quite diverse with different origins and different cultures, but we are one nation. We are here as part of the commemoration of the arrival of the Indian community in South Africa, who arrived in 1860 as slaves, brought by the British, as South Africa was still colonised by them.” Zikalala said that he wishes to ensure that all South Africans use their history and heritage but also build up on different cultures to form one nation that is united in diversity and prospers together. “We are focused on building a united country which will not be described by discrimination in terms of race and gender but a nation where there will be development and prosperity for all people. We are committed to building various sites that represents our history and therefore, had it not been because of glitches that happened before between the provincial and the local government of eThekwini, it will start no later than next year,” Zikalala said. Zikalala said that the first Indians to board SA, worked in the sugarcane plantation of KZN and although many returned back to SA, a significant number remained behind. “Those that stayed behind, quickly established themselves as industrialists and railway workers. As a result today, it is said that the city of Durban has the highest population of Indian people outside of India.” Zikalala said that like Africans, Indians were considered non-White during the apartheid.
“They were ruled by a government they did not elect. Like Africans, Indians were forced into racial segregated townships. They could not enter certain stores, use particular beaches, marry outside their race and even walk on some of the roads. It is therefore not a surprise that the Indian community found a common cause with the struggle masses of SA, who were largely Africans. “Those who were oppressed together, joined forces against the common enemy leading to South Africa’s eventual freedom, in 1994. “As history records in great detail since the late 18th century, the Indian people took part in every aspect of our struggle and I think that this Heritage Centre does not only depict that pain but it brings the evolution of our society
as South Africa,” Zikalala said. Seelan Archary, 1860 Indentured Indian Committee representative said that the one thing that South African Indian heritage do not see today is the unity that was shared years ago. “I heard stories from our leaders of how united Indians were and how we were
able to work with our African brothers and sisters. Sadly, it is not so prevalent today. The one thing that united us back in the day was poverty, despite the work we did in the cane fields. When we came back home we were all subjected to the same poverty. If we listen to our great iconic leader, Nelson Mandela, he said the only way out of poverty was education, and that is true, even till today. So when we hear of schools and universities burning, it makes us cry,
youare burning your future,” Archary said. Archary said that there are other problems that the Indian community faces and he is not afraid to speak about it. “Politically, the Indian community is being pushed out of our branches, either through racial connotations or some are saying that those positions are there for economic benefits.” He said that these issues need to be addressed as soon as possible. “These issues need to be addressed from the highest levels of government or the ANC coming down all the way to our branches,” Archary added. Dr AV Mahomed, the financial director of the Heritage centre said that he was
overall pleased with the turn out of people attending the programme. He said: “This day is a very auspicious day in the calendar of the Indian community
and more so in the republic of South Africa. We are so happy that the turn out of this day was good. I must place on record, my thanks to Tabloid Newspapers for being here and a very big thank ,you once again for this event being possible because of the presence and support of premier Zikalala. May God bless him and the people of KZN,” Mahomed said.