EThekwini Municipality is warning the community, especially those living in informal settlements to make sure that they extinguish open fires after making use of them. The municipality issued the warning following a fire that resulted in a tragic loss of three lives aged 26, 28 and 32 and burnt down close to 100 informal dwellings at the Quarry Road informal settlement on Saturday, 31 October. The municipalities spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said that the cause of the fire is unknown, however, he can confirm that such fires have become common in informal settlements. He said that fires in informal settlements are commonly caused by open flame sources that are being used for cooking, heating, and lighting, especially if they are poorly maintained. “We are deeply saddened by the deaths. We would like to warn the people on the dangers of using open fires. People should make sure that these fires are extinguished properly to avoid such incidents. “We also ask that residents contact emergency services as soon as they see a fire,” said Mayisela. Mayisela said that a team of officials have been dispatched to the site and food hampers have also been delivered to the affected families. The fire at the Quarry Road informal settlement follows another one last week which engulfed over 400 dwellings in the Reservoir Hills informal settlement and left over 1000 people homeless. Ward 23 Councillor Xolani Nala said that there was a challenge with providing shelter for the victims, especially because the incident happened over the weekend and there is no space to place a tent nearer to the informal settlement, however, in the meantime the victims have been requested to seek temporary shelter with relatives and neighbours until a tent is placed,” said Nala. He added that a meeting with the relevant departments who will be providing relief like the Department of Social Development and the municipality has been scheduled and an update will be given as soon as the meeting is finalised.