It was a day of jubilation as Tongaat residents received certificates in honour of their immense contribution towards promoting unity in diversity, peace and cultural integration. Among the recipients who were celebrated was the chairperson of Tongaat Community Policing Forum Nazir Sadack, chairperson of South Sector 3 Community Policing Forum Jacques Laubscher, author, community activist and ward committee member Daniel Alick and Nalinee Subrayen who runs a play school and school transport service. They were complimented by the Sivananda World Peace Foundation in partnership with the Belvedere Community Association. The ceremony was held at Belvedere Peace Park. Speaking to Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid, Laubscher, said that he was honoured and proud to have received a prestigious certificate. He said: “This brings a great joy, motivation to me and my sector. I am truly thankful and  overwhelmed.” Laubscher said that it was a great privilege working hand in hand with the association and foundation in the fight against crime. “I am working very hard to restructure and grow the South Sector CPF. My goal is to have the security running at peak level, for example having surveillance cameras monitoring and active patrolling 24hrs,” he said. Laubscher aims to alleviate the crime in the area, build strong and healthy relationships with residents, community leaders, security companies, Belvedere Civic Association and local police. He said: “This award brings me great pleasure knowing that I have reached a stepping stone in life. I have a passion to serve my community and I strongly believe that service to man is service to God.” Alick said that receiving the certificate was a great honour to him. “I believe that working together we can do more. There is a need to create awareness campaigns about substance abuse. I work hard to empower the residents to fight alcohol and drug abuse,” he said. Alick is creating opportunities that benefit youth, encourage and motivate young people to think big and become bold in decision making. He said: “This honour means that I am on the right track by making the difference in the community. I know I am playing a part making a difference and vital support in the community. I would like to thank all the partners that were involved in the event.” Sadack described the honour from event hosts as a kind gesture. “As an individual, I think that whatever you do for the community does not go unnoticed. My goal is to see all community organisations join hands in the fight against crime and promote peace,” he said. Sadack appealed to the residents to join the part in the fight against crime. Subrayen said that she was motivated as recipient of such certificate. “I feel honoured. My passion is to empower children, vulnerable and disabled citizens,” she added.