York Street came to a standstill as a frustrated group of protestors from the South African Municipal Workers Union (SAMWU) led a peaceful march to the Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) offices to deliver a memorandum on Monday, 9 November. The protestors were calling for the re-instatement of 223 municipal employees who were, according to them, unlawfully dismissed. Nokubonga Dinga, Provincial Secretary of SAMU said that they had staged many marches regarding grievances within the municipality. “It seems to be in vain. We have found that many of our problems are worsening, especially because of the way some political and administrative heads conduct municipal business. Some of these actions bring to disrepute the reputation of the respective municipality. While we whole heartedly support the ruling party, as evident in our last national congress resolution to support, campaign and vote for the ANC, we are however very opposed to many decisions made by some council and municipal officials,” said Dinga. In November 2019, 223 workers within the Newcastle Municipality were dismissed. The workers who were mostly from the Community Services Department, which includes refuse collectors and traffic officials were suspended with pay, after a dispute over unpaid overtime ended in a violent confrontation on 25 September 2019. The workers demanded answers over the non-payment of their overtime. Workers tried to barricade Mayor Ntuthuko Mahlaba and Speaker Samkelisiwe Yende inside the Farmers Hall building. The officials had been attending a meeting in the building. The workers were given their suspension letters the following day. Dinga said that in June 2019, SAMWU marched to the mayor, Cogta MEC and the premiers offices as issues raised were not resolved. “Instead they escalated which in turn led to 223 employees being dismissed. We requested a forensic investigation of the Newcastle Municipality to be done by the Cogta provincial office. There were pre investigations done but the report has not materialised. We are again marching in the hope that the national office of Cogta and the premier’s office will assist us in our plight, ” said Dinga. The chairperson of SAMWU in Newcastle, Twoboy Radebe, said the union had been shocked by the municipality’s actions which resulted in protesters chanting outside the Newcastle municipality on 19 February 2020 regarding the unfair dismissal of the 223 employees. Mandla Mashimimi, chairperson of the Cosatu Newcastle claimed that the municipality did not follow correct procedures when dismissing the staff. Mlungisi Khumalo, head of communications at the Newcastle Municipality declined to comment except to say: “The situation regarding the 223 employees is now with the courts.”