Three men who allegedly stabbed to death Tongaat businessman Ashveer Sukwa and injured his father on Saturday morning at their Fairbreeze home, have been arrested. Sukwa, 35, died after sustaining 35 stab wounds on his body while his father, Rajesh, 65, sustained four stab wounds and was taken to hospital where he is in a stable condition in the intensive care unit (ICU). Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a provincial police spokesperson, said that the two suspects aged between 20 and 22 years old were arrested on Sunday in Ndwedwe and a cash amount of R85 405 was recovered from one of the suspects. She said that an okapi knife with blood stains was also found from the suspects. She said: “In the early hours of Monday morning, Tongaat Task Team proceeded to upper Tongaat where the third suspect aged 32 years old was apprehended. The suspects were taken to Tongaat police station for processing and they will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court soon.” Mbele said that the men are facing murder, attempted murder and house robbery charges. Prem Balram of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said that their members rushed to the scene after being contacted by a passerby informing them that he had walked past the Fairbreeze home and noticed the back door and gate to the house open and blood on the floor. He said that when the members arrived at the house, the father was found in the kitchen covered in blood. “The victim informed our members that he and his son operated a fruit and vegetable distribution business from the property. He opened up for one of his employees who was expected to transport a load of bananas to the market. His employee, with three other men, held him up and forced him into the warehouse. They repeatedly stabbed and assaulted him before locking him in a cold room in the warehouse,” said Balram. When the suspects fled the scene, the victim managed to free himself and make his way back into the house. He then informed Rusa members that his son was also in the house, but could not be found. Blaram said: “The deceased was found on the floor wrapped in a bed sheet and blanket that was soaked with blood. It was discovered that he was stabbed at least 35 times and was declared deceased on the scene. The entire home was ransacked and two safes were found open. A firearm is suspected to be stolen.” Ward 62 councillor Yogis Govender, said that she was shocked by the incident. She said: “This heinous crime has rocked our community to the core. We are all deeply aggrieved and saddened,” she said. Govender said that Tongaat has seen a steep unchecked, increase and progression in criminal activity since May this year.
“As residents, we need more from law enforcement, more visible policing and better response times equally from members of South African Police Service (SAPS) and Metro. The provincial police needs to deploy the rapid response teams to assist to stem this wave of crime,” she said. Govender assured to raise crime issue with the eThekwini Municipality Task Team and exco meeting. She conveyed her sincere condolences to the family and all affected by this brutal act. “We pray for a speedy recovery for Mr Sukwa and strength for his family,” Govender added.