Jessica Schwenn shares with us her experience in the business world as a young woman, her dreams and aspiration for the community, and the charity work she is involved in. Westville Weekly Gazette (WWG):
Who is Jessica Schwenn? Jessica Schwenn (JS):
I am a 26-year-old business woman. I am an attorney. I graduated from high school in 2012 from Northlands Girls’ High. I am originally from Johannesburg and moved to Durban in 2010 with my family. I wrote and passed my four board exams the first time where I was admitted as an attorney and took over Schwenn Incorporated when my aunt sadly passed away in June this year. I am a home-body and have four fur-babies. WWG: Tell us more about your business and what you do? JS: We are attorneys, conveyancers and notary publics. We help a lot in the community by doing pro bono work and getting involved in community projects. WWG: Has business always been your dream? JS: I knew I would always get into business in some shape or form but I didn’t imagine it would be so soon, however, I am always learning on my feet and happy with where I am. WWG: What are the valid lessons you’ve learned since you ventured into business? JS: You need to have a good team and a good support structure. Not everyone is going to have your back and stand behind you when the waves are coming but if you have a good team and if you are confident in yourself you will make it through. WWG: What has been your biggest motivation and aspiration in business as a young woman? JS: Unfortunately, as a woman in a male-dominated industry, especially being so young, it is assumed that you just cannot do the job and that as a woman your
ideas aren’t valued. My main motivation is to show women that they can achieve what they want if they work hard. I also want to prove that a young woman can make a success of a business with all odds against her, I would love that to be my story. WWG: What charity work are you involved through your business? JS: As a legal professional you are mandated to do
at least 24 hours of pro bono work a year but our firm goes well beyond that. We like to make the law accessible to as many people as we can. We always donate to
many foundations such as the Jes Foord Foundation,
the Robinhood Foundation and go into our community
to do some projects like painting the McCord Hospital walls and decorating the children’s ward.
WWG: What has charity taught you about your community? JS: It has taught me that there are a lot of people in need which is terrifying, but it has also taught me that if every single person does one thing to help another person we can change the world. WWG: What is your favourite part about doing charity work? JS: I like the way people light up when they see that someone has done something for them. It is almost like you can see the burden lift from their shoulders. I also love the addictive mental calm in me it creates, giving is the best therapy. WWG: What is the most challenging part about charity work? JS: You never feel like you are doing enough. No matter how much you do, it will never feel like you are doing enough and to try to motivate others is difficult especially when they are going through trying times themselves. WWG: Given the opportunity, what would you change about the community you live in? JS: I would love to motivate people to give back. Every person can do something to help their community irrespective of how much money they have. The bigger goal would be to see everyone employed or educated with skills enough to create their own employment thereby sustaining the community. If we work together we can make a beautiful community. WWG: What knowledge would you impart on young women you’ve met during the charity work you do? JS: Charity starts at home. It starts with you, be kind to yourself first. You cannot give from an empty cup. When your cup is full you spread that kindness as far as you can, believe in yourself and spread that kindness and confidence because those two things are infectious. WWG: Do you believe there are a lot of lives to be saved through charity work, and how? JS: Yes I do feel like charity could save lives. Whether it be to actually donate items needed to save lives or to just spend time with someone and some kindness to let them know they aren’t alone and to relieve them of their burden of stress, that in itself is a lifesaver.