The Department of Social Development (DSD) hosted traditional leaders and healers in a dialogue to discuss the scourge of gender-based-violence (GBV) that has rapidly increased since the inception of the National Covid-19 Lockdown in March. The Station Venue Hall was bright and colorful on Thursday, 5 November, as the traditional healers came proudly dressed in their attires wearing colorful beads on their wrists, necks and ankles in respect of their ancestors. Setting the tone of the discussion DSD MEC, Nohlanhla Khoza, asked the traditional healers to sing a song and chant as she joined them on the floor. MEC Khoza said that the department had been meeting different sectors with an intention to involve everyone in the fight against incidences of abuse in the communities. “In this province we have seen sporadic incidents where women and children are murdered and sometimes bodies found with missing parts. Therefore, it has become more important for us to engage with this important sector of traditional healers and traditional leaders. We want them to deal with the myths that human body parts can play some role in healing any sickness. We often hear about people being caught with human body parts, claiming that they were acting on sangomas’ or inyangas’ instructions,” she said. MEC Khoza said government is resolute that such criminality needs to be exposed, but traditional healers equally have a role to play. “We strongly believe that traditional leaders can also play a critical role in their respective areas to ensure that criminals masquerading as healers get exposed and are arrested. We also want to see traditional leaders ensure that no women and children should suffer abuse in their areas. We have to ensure that people living with albinism also get protected by all of us. These people are living in fear and can’t even walk alone freely because they are scared that they will be attacked and murdered,” she said. The Mec committed that all the resolutions of the engagement would be taken to the provincial government to develop strategies of working together with the sectors affected. MEC Khoza said amakhosi should work closely with the law enforcement agencies and report all those who abuse the elderly, children and women. She added that both sectors must also ensure the protection of older persons who are often accused of witchcraft. The healers and traditional leaders vowed to play their role in an effort to end the scourge of GBV in their respective communities.