A new leadership of the Democratic Alliance (DA) was ushered in at the two day elective Federal Congress held from 31 October – 1 November. In a historic virtual ceremony with over 2000 delegates across the virtual platform, John Steenhuisen was elected the new leader of the DA for the next three years. With 80 percent of the votes cast, Steenhuisen beat contender Mbali Ntuli The leadership conference was originally scheduled to be held in May, but was postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The congress was the largest online congress of any political party in South Africa. In a media statement the DA said that candidates used the online OpaVote platform to cast their votes. ” The combination of proven technology with national hybrid venues, ensured that delegates of all communities have an opportunity to cast their vote. The election results were compliant with all DA election requirements and rules. They were signed off by presiding officers, as well as the candidates’ party agents and also a professional audit firm who acted as independent external auditors and who oversaw the voting process. All individuals who observed voting consider the elections free and fair. This Congress was not only the largest, but also the most accessible and participatory Congress in the history of the DA, ” read the statement. Steenhuisen, 44, was previously the interim federal leader from November 2019, having served as the chief whip of the official opposition from May 2014 to October 2019. Steenhuisen has been a public representative for over 20 years. He has been serving as a member of the National Assembly since July 2011. Prior to his appointment to the National Assembly, John was involved with the politics of KwaZulu-Natal first being elected as a councillor in Durban at the age of 22 and serving as the provincial leader of the DA and the party’s caucus leader in the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature. In his acceptance speech Steenhuisen said: “I cannot think of a more fitting place from which to speak with you today than this beautiful City of eThekwini. Twenty-one years ago, I made my way up the steps of the Durban City Hall for the very first time, as the city’s youngest ever elected councillor. Back then – as today – many people asked me why I decided to go into politics. My answer today is the same as it has always been: because I love my party, and I love my country.” Steenhuisen said that he travelled a long road in the DA. But never in his wildest imagination did he believe I would one day lead the DA. ” When I first became a DP activist at the age of nineteen, I did so because I knew it was a party with a proud history of fighting to give power to the people of South Africa. A party that waged a lone battle in Parliament against the evil Apartheid regime. A party that was instrumental in the drafting of our nation’s liberal democratic Constitution. A party that grew from a handful of seats in Parliament to become the official opposition. ” He said that Mbali, did not make this an easy race as she fought him every step of the way, and never gave up. ” In doing so, you helped entrench a proud democratic tradition in our party: that we don’t anoint leaders here; we elect them. We choose our leaders on the basis of their ideas, the content of their character and their potential to lead our party into new territory. Long may this democratic tradition continue.” said Steenhuisen. “The DA walks alongside you – the people of South Africa – with our chins held high and our eyes focused – not on the many perils that confront us today – but on the horizon of hope that beckons tomorrow, ” Steenhuisen. The results of the elections are as follows: Federal Chairperson: Dr. Ivan Meyer, elected uncontested. Deputy Federal Chairpersons: 1st Deputy: Refiloe Nt’Sekhe, 2nd Deputy: Anton Bredell and 3rd Deputy: Jacques Smalle, Chairperson of the Federal Council : Helen Zille, with 69 percent of votes cast. Deputy chairpersons of the Federal Council, James Masango and Thomas Walters, elected uncontested. Chairperson of Federal Finance: Dr Dion George, elected uncontested.