Chanisse Kara, is a 33-year-old self-published author from Durban who describes herself as creative, goal-orientated and charitable. Kara who is passionate about turning her novels into movie screenplays spoke to the Springfield Weekly Gazette about her book, 13 Hours on Trial. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG): Who exactly is Chanisse Kara and how best can you describe her?
Chanisse Kara (CK): I am a creative day-dreamer that always comes up with concepts for novels, movies and TV fantasy adverts. I believe that my talents lie more on the artistic side. I am mostly quiet and withdrawn and that is mostly because I think a lot and have many goals to achieve with regards to writing novels for self-published authors like myself who do not have an international publisher. There is a lot of admin that I have to do. I have to play the role of my own personal assistant, collect important contacts required to promote my book, attend library events and interviews, schedule my own interviews and so on. It is all considered as fun for me. SWG: What do you do for a living?
CK: I work as a personal assistant for a lab in Durban, it is a lot of fun and a lot of interesting information to pick up on. SWG: Tell us about your story and the story world you have created?
CK: The story is about a real-life con artist that extended in the early nineties. The con-artist used his stolen funds to secure water shortages in rural areas and fund school fees for underprivileged pupils in the rural districts of Durban. The concept of my self-published book that is already in libraries and bookstores across South Africa is fictional, however, the story is based on real events. Some International publishing houses have expressed interests in turning the novel into a memoir which I think is the most fitting idea as I wrote the book from the point of view of the main character whom I knew personally in the late nineties. SWG: Tell us how ’13 hours on trial’ came to be?
CK: You will never believe how easy it was to lay it out. When I first started writing books in 2005 after I came up with the Paris European fantasy series, a lot of people, including the websites of international publishers stated that their main preferences for taking on new authors are books written as memoirs. They then asked me to send them a memoir based on a person’s huge accomplishments or a tragic story. During these times I had declined the thought because my fantasy series was all I ever wanted to put out. So, during 2015, I knew the story of a very close friend of mine who lived his life as a con- artist. Sadly, he passed away in the early nineties, so his life story and struggles are what I consider the entire book as it reads. It was like having an idea given to you on a silver platter as it is their story that makes the book what it is. SWG: What special knowledge or research was required to write this book?
CK: It is the characters story in this book that makes this book run in its volume of pages. You know people always wonder how some people live and why they do the things they do? This book, 13 hours on trial/baghdad is a window into the struggling salesman’s world. Anyone can write a book, but not anyone can write a best-seller as that is left to the imagination of the author and lifestyle choices of his real-life characters. For me, using people’s lives as the main focal point of telling a story has always been the way literature was plotted out in books. Since the time Shakespeare was around. I would say that my knowledge for the books to run in its pages are the people who run the show in real life. SWG: How did you go about developing the setting(s) for this story?
CK: People always said to me, why don’t you hang up on fantasy for a while and give something local to the tune. I always declined it as I was never thinking within those lines. Suddenly everything in the con-artist world seemed vivid enough to be put into the book. People shared their problems with me and it is even safe to say that the character in my book, Simon Underwood lived his life in Durban the same way portrayed in my story, so, I decided to add it in SWG: Tell us about your main characters and what makes them tick?
CK: My main character is the flawed Simon Underwood who can talk his way into anything and out of anything. What makes Simon tick is that everything honest and mundane bores him to death. This man lives life on the edge and I think readers hopefully in the future will see his weakness as a strength. Despite his wrong doings, he was a guy with a good heart and he did what he could to escape his sins by covering a highly sought after a charitable act. It makes readers think about the choices they have and that sometimes it is ok to step back and reflect on your actions and thoughts rather than act impulsively. Simon’s wife, Naomi is another one of my main characters. What makes her tick is being in a long relationship with her husband. SWG: What do you hope readers will take away from this story?
CK: Readers will learn what desperate people do in order to survive. For some, in Simon’s case, it was harder than he thought. Readers will also see that not everyone who comes from a glamorous background can be flawless.
In Simon’s case, it was a matter of how much freedom and lack of discipline he had in his upbringing. The readers will see that no matter what background you come from,
it is the company you keep and the influence of those around you as well as the choices you make are what builds the arch and foundation in a person’s life. SWG: How do you balance the demands of writing with other responsibilities? For example family and work
CK: Because writing takes up a lot of time, it also takes up a lot of thought. I cannot just put whatever sells out there. I have to take into consideration the response it can generate. The fact that I work a nine to five job, Monday to Friday means that I have the weekends off to write. Most of the time I try not to let on too much of my personal life as I like to keep my public work and personal life separate. It is all about the books and the ideas. Hypothetically speaking, what more can an author do for society other than produce work and create jobs for people such as allowing them to act in screen-adapted versions of the book? I make a little time for family and friends during the weekends but most of the time there is a lot to do with the books, whether it is getting it into new libraries and every piece of media exposure counts as experience. SWG: Tell me about some of your achievements?
CK: My first achievement was conducting the idea and concept of the omen swift series and setting it within the Paris background. For any artist or writer, the buildings in Paris always have an edge for mystery and intrigue. You look at those Church cathedrals, and you know it has something about it. A presence, a history or a mystery that lies deep within its artistic stance. In 2015, my first breakthrough was being in four government libraries in the Midlands and the South Coast via Adams book stores in Durban. 2019 saw me going into the bigger book stores and my print run is very small, at just about 150 copies. It was like a double dream gone bigger just to have my books sold at the stores and then bought by libraries to keep them in stock. All this is coming from a child that used to sit on the floor of libraries and at Adams book stores and read their books. To think that now they actually host my novels is truly a humbling experience.
SWG: What does a relaxing day in the life of Chanisse look like? CK: A relaxing day for me includes chilling at a park, enjoying nature and documenting the the wildlife. I am a bit afraid of large whales but I do enjoy live dolphin watching. SWG: What adice would you give young writers trying to build a publishing history or an author platform?
CK: Think big, dream big and the results will be big. It is easier said than starting out or starting something. Some writers struggle to make it in the tea normal jobs. It is not because they want to endure hardships, it is because creating is the only way to do things on a more truthful level. Only you, the author knows what you are capable of. There are many people who will discourage you from your dreams and goals. It is up to you as an artist to create the type of work that can change the way people see things. Not everything is black and white, there is a limit to which you can push boundaries to create art and books. Go out and approach book stores and media events. The right company gets you the right contact. The right contact gets you the right places. Including getting your book out there.