The Food For Life (FFL) SA – River Range Ranch branch together with the Bhaktivedanta Swami Harinam Sankirtan recently served sumptuous hot meals to members of the community in Verulam. Master chef, Vaidarbhi Devi Dasi said: “Our people at the Verulam Morning Market were treated to a delicious four course meal including yellow rice, broad beans, spinach herbs, fresh green beans with soya chunks and salads. Over 500 plates of oppulent breyani and hampers were also distributed to the New Glasgow, Thunder Town and surrounding areas.” Chairman of FFL SA River Range Ranch branch, Ramkinkar das said: “Since the beginning of the national lockdown due to the Covid-19 coronavirus pandemic, the FFL SA River Range Ranch branch has been happily preparing a variety of meals including the iconic breyani with special halava that are being relished by our cosmopolitan community.” Vick Panday, CEO of FFL SA River Range Ranch branch commented: “This service of giving back to the community gives my wife, Helena Panday and I tremendous joy. During our foodathon drive recently, we distributed 10 500 meals locally and a total of 324 pots were cooked by 34 branches in South Africa, totalling 71 280 meals.” Helen Panday recalled that the property initially was acquired by the family trust to find a safe place to spend quality family time. “As the ranch was developing, my family and I decided to reserve a special place on the property that will be dedicated to the Food For Life outreach programme. Hence, we are going all out to put all the safety protocols and latest cooking and baking equipment to ease and improve service delivery to the vulnerable,” said Panday. Public relations officer Dr Krishna Prasad Rambarran said: “The newly established board of the FFL SA River Range Ranch branch have passed a resolution and boldly declared within a 12 kilometre radius of the new state-of-the-art- kitchen, a hunger free zone.
This vision is in keeping with the founder of Food For Life, HDG A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, who was touched with the poverty levels of our people throughout the world.” The team welcomes and encourages businesses, trusts and corporates to partner with Food For Life SA River Range Ranch branch to donate towards their community upliftment initiatives so the community can access a healthy meal. Interested donors can call the secretary, HG Vaidarbhi Devi Dasi on 084 7456 746, 067 196 4145 or 031 505 2277.