Self-sustenance and food security was the main focus, during the official launch of the One Home One Garden programme at the Harry Gwala District on 26 June. The programme was convened through the province-wide Operation Sukuma Sakhe initiative that is aimed at improving food security in communities through the planting of gardens in each house in the district. The launch of the programme, which comes with additional support from the provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, includes ploughing materials and seeds. KZN MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Sipho Hlomuka officially did the launch joined by Cllr Zamo Nxumalo – the Mayor of the Harry Gwala District, Inkosi Chiliza – the chairperson of KZN Provincial House of Traditional Leaders and Cllr Mpabanga – the uMzimkhulu Mayor. Hlomuka explained that the objective of the programme is to create self-sustenance in the communities. “In launching this programme, we are aiming for our communities to practice planting and tending gardens within their own homes. This helps in ensuring that we rely less on food bought from shops and more on our own homegrown vegetables,” said Hlomuka. At the uMzimkhulu local municipality the delegation visited the household of Mbeko David Mhlongo, 60, a pensioner, to assist him in planting his garden. The second house that was visited was that of 40-year-old Petros Skhumbuzo Jama who is unemployed but took up small-scale farming as an opportunity to feed himself and his family. Jama believes that the support he has received through this programme has empowered him to be better able to farm in his small garden. Following the visit to the households, Hlomuka stopped at the Rietvlei Hospital where he joined the Provincial Legislature-led programme aimed at monitoring health institutions. Hlomuka encouraged nurses and doctors to continue with the good work they are doing in providing care to our communities during a time when the province and country are fighting against the spread of the coronavirus.