“Phoenix police station is a ticking time-bomb and we fear for our lives and that of our families as more police members have tested positive for COVID-19 at our station. We don’t want to die and risk our loved ones too.” This was the heartfelt and urgent cry from some police officers at Phoenix SAPS after they reported that there are nine known positive COVID-19 cases of police officers from the station even after the recent decontamination. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid on condition of anonymity, the police officers are in a state of panic as the station remains open with the number of infections increasing. “There are infections in various departments within the station and we are afraid as we do not know who the next victim might be. We are afraid to touch anything in the station. Just stepping in there is a health risk. We have families to think of. We are breadwinners too. We should be protected. How do we work under these circumstances? There should be some plan in place to safeguard our lives. We don’t want to become COVID-19 statistics if it can be avoided,” the group of concerned police officers said. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Democratic Alliance spokesperson for Community Safety in KwaZulu-Natal MPL Sharon Hoosen said: “It has come to my attention that there are more SAPS officers at the Phoenix police station that have tested positive for COVID-19. This is very concerning because not only will the station be further understaffed but the health and safety measures need to be investigated. Unfortunately, SAPS officers are at risk everyday as frontline workers and that is why it is so essential that there is no negotiation when it comes to ensuring their safety. On reflection in most areas in Phoenix and Chatsworth, the communities are not complying with the regulations of safety and are operating as it is business as usual. I have again addressed this matter with the Provincial Commissioner and in addition to the normal protocols  in these cases, I have requested that an investigation be done on whether there are any  inefficiencies with respect to health and safety measures within the stations, including access to sufficient PPE kits. Further to that, officers must be redirected to both Chatsworth and Phoenix to assist with enforcement while officers who tested positive are able to recover.” “We need urgent intervention. We need something to be done at the station. We value our jobs but that is dependent on the safety of our lives,” the frantic Phoenix SAPS officers said. Phoenix Tabloid is awaiting comment from provincial police.