Subscribe!function(m,a,i,l,s,t,e,r){m[s]=m[s]||(function(){t=a.createElement(i);r=a.getElementsByTagName(i)[0];t.async=1;t.src=l;r.parentNode.insertBefore(t,r);return !0}())}(window,document,'script','https://tabloidmedia.co.za/wp-content/plugins/mailster/assets/js/button.min.js','MailsterSubscribe'); Stringent measures have been instituted at Umgeni Water to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) since four employees based at the organization’s Head Office in Burger Street, Pietermaritzburg, tested positive for Covid-19. In a statement released on 25 June, by Shami Harichunder, corporate stakeholder manager of Umgeni Water, Pietermaritzburg it read: “The Board and Executive Management wish to assure all customers of Umgeni Water at the same time that the core functions of Umgeni Water, namely supply of drinking water in bulk to municipalities and operation of wastewater treatment works, remain unaffected.” The statement further explained that following confirmation of the four employees’ test results, management and the Crisis Management Team at Umgeni Water initiated immediate action in line with national Covid-19 contact, tracing and testing protocols and with Umgeni Water’s Covid-19 response strategy. “The employees in question are currently in self-insolation and Umgeni Water management is maintaining regular contact with them as part of support initiatives.
Confirmation of the first case of Covid-19 was received by Management of Umgeni Water on 19 June and the second case was confirmed on 21 June, “read the statement. Harichunder said that the building where the affected employees work was subsequently deep cleansed in order for decontamination to take place. All colleagues of these two employees who had been in close contact with them were identified and discussions took place with them pertaining to Covid-19 protocols and measures to implement if they develop symptoms commonly associated with Covid19. A risk assessment conducted at the time suggested that it is unlikely that infection originated within the workplace at head office. “Three of them later began to show some symptoms of the virus and took Covid-19 tests. On 24 June two of them were confirmed Covid-19 positive. They are currently in self-isolation at their homes. Tracing of those they had been in contact with them in the workplace has begun. On 24 June, the executive of Umgeni Water took a decision to close the head office main building and another building not far from it in Burger Street that is occupied by Umgeni Water staff for deep cleansing and decontamination. This process will be completed by Sunday, 28 June, “read the statement. Harichunder said that Umgeni Water is liaising closely with the Department of Health on all management and prevention measures. Staff who are based at these buildings have been asked to work from home. Umgeni Water said that they remain vigilant and are in constant contact with all of the affected employees to provide support and receive feedback on their condition. They further said that they have been proactive and transparent in dealing with this situation. In line with this, Umgeni Water leadership has taken a decision that where applicable, details will be shared with stakeholders, both inside and external of the organisation, so that the information they obtain is first-hand, consistent and accurate. The statement further explained that in response to the presidential declaration of a national state of disaster in March as a result of the Covid-19 outbreak, Umgeni Water activated its Crisis Management Team and numerous measures were implemented to contain the spread of the virus. “These measures are still in place and have assisted in ensuring that key functions of the organisation continue uninterrupted, while the health and wellbeing of staff is protected. Prevention strategies implemented include social distancing; daily monitoring of temperatures of all staff; restrictions on external service providers and consultants visiting sites; weekly information provision by staff on whether they had been in contact with or in close proximity to known Covid-19 positive persons, and provision of company transport to staff who work at water treatment and wastewater treatment plants and who have to use public transport. “ said Harichunder. Harichunder said that the Covid-19 response strategy continues to assist Umgeni Water in delivering the required amount of water of excellent quality to its municipal customers and in providing ancillary services that are vital to supporting good public health and the economy of KwaZulu-Natal.