A group of international scientists who collaborated on a study have revealed that people residing close to waste disposal sites are being exposed to serious health consequences. University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Dr Mitsuaki Andrew Tomita, lead author of the study, said that between 2008 and 2015, they observed a substantial increase in exposure of households to waste sites. “The median distance of households to waste sites decreased from 68 kms to only 8.5 kms over the study period. We found there was a greater likelihood of asthma, tuberculosis, diabetes, and depression in individuals residing within five km from waste sites. He reported a number of chronic clinical conditions. Further, the study found that the closer the participants lived to the waste site (as close as 5km’s), the greater the likelihood of being diagnosed of such diseases,” he said. Tomita said that they have accessed data over a nine year period from the South African National Income Dynamics study which included 32 255 participants. “The data included the health status of participants living close to waste sites, as determined by data captured in the South African National Income Dynamics Study,” he added. According to the Department of Environmental Affairs, South Africa is in the midst of a waste disposal crisis with only 10% of waste currently being recycled whilst 98 million tonnes are deposited into landfills each year. Professor Rob Slotow, UKZN’s pro-vice chancellor of African Cities of the Future, said that the increased projected levels of waste in the country, especially in poorly managed waste sites was a huge concern. “It can result in serious health complications for the households residing even as far as 10 km away. Landfill sites harbour rodent vectors of respiratory diseases, and air pollutants such as hydrogen sulfide emissions can harm the respiratory system leading to lung diseases, whilst groundwater contamination can also affect health outcomes,” he said. Professor Jonathan Burns, former UKZN head of Psychiatry and current honorary professor in Psychiatry at the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom, said: “In apartheid South Africa, due to racist environmental policies, non-white people were dispossessed of their land and forcibly moved to sites that were racially designated, often at urban outskirts including close to landfill sites.
The danger posed by certain landfill gases lasts for decades, specifically for those living in close proximity to such sites who had little choice as to where they could live in pre-democratic South Africa. Further people living close to these sites often reported odour, traffic, pollution, and property devaluation, which can also have a psychological impact on these communities.” The scientists propose a sustainable development approach to address the enormous rise of waste sites in South Africa in order to improve the health and well-being of its people according to the sustainable development goals. Tomita added: “We identified multiple health problems in individuals living close to waste sites, which is contrary to the constitutional human rights of the population, as outlined in the Constitution of South Africa (ie, Section 24, the right of individuals to live in an environment that is not harmful to their health or wellbeing). Furthermore, the association with mental health outcomes indicates a potential negative effect on the dignity of individuals living near waste sites, which is linked to both social justice and wellbeing.”