Barely two days into the reopening of schools, three local schools issued statements confirming that their teachers have tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). The schools have since closed and pupils were advised not to return to school until further notice. The principal of Savannah Park Secondary School, Mr AS Naicker issued a statement confirming that a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. Mr Naicker said: “I was informed on the evening of Tuesday, 9 June that the teacher had tested positive. The teacher was absent on Monday, 8 June and did not come into contact with any pupils.” Parents and guardians were thanked for sending their pupils back to school, trusting all safety protocols are in place. Having consulted with the District Director, PN Cele, the principal of the school was instructed to temporarily suspend tuition for both grade 7 and 12 until further notice. Naicker said that today (Wednesday, 10 June) the Department of Education together with the Department of Health will be at the school to conduct screening and testing of teachers and support staff. The school will also be fumigated and sanitised. Apollo Secondary and Clairwood Secondary Schools were also closed due to teachers testing positive for Covid-19. School governing body chairman of Apollo Secondary School, Rowan Hirchan said, “One of the teachers who did not report to school on Monday, 8 June has tested positive for Covid-19. The said teacher was in school till Thursday, 4 June and she fell ill at home in the evening. On reporting to school last week, the teacher was mostly confined to the staff room, and admin areas, which is thoroughly sanitized and cleaned on a daily basis.” The principal of Clairwood Secondary School, Mr Y Naidoo also confirmed that one of their teachers has tested positive for Covid19. “He was in school, last week during the preparation period and was in contact with school staff members however he did not come into contact with pupils. He did not report to school on Monday, 8 June. The teacher visited a doctor and after seeing his results and noting that he had tested positive, he immediately informed me on Monday afternoon, ” said Mr Naidoo. The school opened on Tuesday morning upon the instruction of the Department of Health for screening and testing to be conducted for educators and pupils. Upon the instruction of the Education Department the pupils were released immediately after the screening process was conducted and the school was closed until further notice. At the time of posting no comment was available from the Departments of Health and Education. This is a developing story and updates will follow once new information is available.