Since the start of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns which followed, South Africa has seen an increase in testing, medical supplies, and precautions taken to stay safe from the dreaded disease such as social distancing, wearing of masks and hand santisation. However, in recent days the number of positive Covid-19 cases has continued to increase steadily affecting all facets of society. No one is immune to the dreaded virus. Shahan Ramkissoon, news anchor at eNCA recently tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under quarantine for 14 days. Denver Naicker from Tabloid Newspapers spoke to him about his journey since testing positive for the virus. Q1. Shahan, what made you test for Covid- 19? Were you not following the rules? I was following all the rules; social distancing, wearing a mask and sanitising my hands constantly, so I was surprised I got the virus. But it goes to show that it can be picked up so easily, anywhere you go. I could have been infected at the office or while grocery shopping but we need to move pass the issue of how you contract the virus because that’s how negative stigmas start. The health minister says more than 60 percent of the population will get Covid-19 and majority of the cases will be mild. This virus is everywhere, so don’t look to blame someone if you get it. It’s pointless and unnecessary. Q2. What are some of the symptoms that you had for Covid-19 and what was the process of the test? I had common flu symptoms, a slight headache and fever, as well as tummy issues. My doctor diagnosed me with acute gastro and put me on antibiotics. When both rounds of antibiotics didn’t work, he became suspicious and asked me to get tested. He said my symptoms were even milder than most people, which is why it didn’t raise red flags for him in the beginning. I tested at a Lancet facility. They were very cautious and professional with the nose swab test. It was uncomfortable but not bad at all. I got my results three days later due to the current backlog. Q3. When you received the results how did you feel at the time? I was pretty anxious because this is a disease that kills and I couldn’t help but be nervous. However, when I read that if you have a strong immune system and are healthy, your body will fight the virus, I calmed down and I’m positive that I’ll overcome this. Q4. Who was the first person you had told to be at ease from receiving the results? I told my family first and then had to inform the office and everyone I came into contact with while working. Q5. How did your family react to the news? They are naturally worried. My mum wanted to come from Durban to Johannesburg immediately but I advised against that, because she’s in her 60s and high risk. Older people and those with chronic illnesses must be extra cautious. My family checks in with me daily now via video calls and they’re comforted by the fact that I’m doing well. Q6. When you informed ENCA did you not think of the repercussions at the studio for your work associates? Of course I thought about my colleagues. The thing is, I didn’t show signs of the virus so it was impossible for me to know I had it. It’s pointless feeling guilty, when you don’t know. Luckily, because I sanitised so much and wore a mask at the office, I didn’t infect anyone else. Their results have come back negative. Q7. What made you take to social media with the news that you had tested positive? I decided to make my result public to create awareness and get rid of the negative stigma. You can’t hold someone accountable for giving you the coronavirus because it’s not intentional. We need to educate ourselves and realise that this virus is everywhere and spreading at a rapid rate. We have to have strong immune systems so our bodies can fight it off easily. So revealing my status was to purely let people know that they should take all precautions and even if you do get infected, if you’re healthy you can pull through this. Also, don’t treat people badly or look down at them because they test positive. It doesn’t mean they were not cautious or clean, that’s the most ridiculous and ill-informed assumption. The virus is everywhere. Show love and support and we can all get through this together. Q8. You have received an overwhelming response from the public with excessive support, how do you feel? I can’t thank everyone enough for their love, support and prayers. It’s been absolutely amazing to see how much people care. It brightens up my days in isolation and I want to say thank you to every single person who reached out on social media and privately. If we all cared for each other this way, all the time, we’d live in a better world. Q9. You are currently under quarantine for 14 days, what exactly will you be doing during this period? I’ve mostly been relaxing so my body uses most of its strength to fight this virus. But I’ve done light DIY projects so far, including refurbishing a bookshelf. I’m going to use this time to appreciate life, my family, friends, people in general and this beautiful world we live in. I know Jesus has my back and I will conquer this. Q10. What is your message to SA for those not taking this disease seriously? Please take care of yourself and your family. Whether you have mild symptoms or not, remember this virus does kill, so rather be safe than sorry. Wear a mask, sanitise your hands all the time and try not to go out unless absolutely necessary. Also, show love to everyone in your life now, be kind and caring. Don’t wait for them to get sick.