Gender based violence has come back to bite the country hard with a spike in the number of cases of women and child abuse. Ostensibly, many of these cases have come to the fore since South Africa went into lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Activists nationwide have called on president Cyril Ramaphosa to put the same efforts in, if not more, that he had shown to combat the novel coronavirus. Earlier in the lockdown KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala noted at a press conference that “lockdown was not an excuse for gender based violence.” One such organisation behind the campaign to address gender based and domestic violence is eThekwini Secure, who have renewed their call for communities to take a stand. Together with their partners the Active Citizens Coalition and eThekwini Outreach, they are calling all men to take the pledge to help stop the scourge of violence against women, children, the vulnerable and the elderly. eThekwini Secure and Active Citizen’s Coalition chairperson, Imtiaz Syed said that it was unfortunate that the Covid-19 lockdown had given precedence to the heinous acts of violence against defenceless people. “It is unacceptable that a woman gets murdered and hung from a tree, and that a little child gets kidnapped and is later found murdered. We are beyond exploring the reasons for people with sick minds who commit such crimes. The days of talking are over. We ask President Cyril Ramaphosa to rise above all else to find harsher ways of dealing with these criminals,” said Syed. “We understand that in so much as we as activists and members of community police forums encourage victims to report acts of abuse and violence, that they are afraid to do so. Invariably, the criminal remains free to do as he pleases.” Syed said flagbearers collectively, who keep the spirit of activism alive and the government should ensure the safety of women and children. “More effort and money should be expanded to build well-secured places of safety for such victims. The state should explore ways of creating more platforms to empower victims of gender-based and domestic violence, where they no longer live in fear, but when they speak out that there remains a powerful structure to protect these victims so that they may live without fear. “We renew our call for men especially to take the pledge to stand out and be counted among those who condemn these crimes,” said Syed. He added that all three organisations, eThekwini Secure, Active Citizens Coalition and eThekwini Outreach work independently of councillors. “We are not associated with any councillors. Our drive is to create social partners, and that is why we have been accredited by the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, most notably for our work during the lockdown relief efforts.” Following the recent Lacey Road fire in Sydenham, the trio of organisations ran a collection campaign to provide relief for people who lost their belongings in the devastating incident. “We put out the call at the last minute, and the response was overwhelming. We need to thank people like Ahmed Osman and his team, organisations like the Caring Sisters Network, Feed the Poor, and the many unsung volunteers who took the time to help with these campaigns. It must be noted that no councillors were involved in these efforts,” said Syed.