“We can now say with confidence that about 95 percent of schools have been ably provided with the Covid-19 related imperatives,” said Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga on Sunday, 7 June to update the media on the state of readiness for the reopening of schools on Monday. 8 June. The MECs of Education also joined the live televised briefing. Motshekga said that cleaning and training was done during the “mop up” week of
1 -8 June and that “The golden rule is, there will be no school that will resume, if not ready to do so. But no child will be left behind. “ The minister said that provinces have stepped up to fulfill all those essentials that were not in place on the 31 May to be in place on 8 June. For the remaining 5 percent or so pupils, alternative measures have been developed by different districts and provinces e.g temporarily using neighbouring schools, using underutilized spaces in boarding schools and camps etc. Provinces will be engaging parents to move pupils to alternative places. “We have been forced to change even the way we provide our services.” said Motshekga. The minister explained that blockages around delivery of equipment to schools and vandalism contributed the delays. “More than 1672 schools were vandalized. There were interferes of delivery of goods. Induction and orientation of teachers has not been completed. Sanitisation was a major issue. “ said Motshekga. The minister said that the number of provinces that were classified as high risk has improved. According to data most provinces are able to receive pupils and teachers. “ 95 percent of schools have all the Covid19 essentials and schools are ready to re-open. 5 percent of schools that are not Covid-19 ready will not re-open yet.” said Motshekga. If parents are unable to send their children to school, a plan will be made. “Proposals received are being considered. The Department will be responding shortly to those parents who are uneasy to send their children to school, “ said Motshekga. Motshekga said that the school calendar year is being revised and work will continue to prepare for pupils return in July and August.. “We have done and will continue to do our level best to ensure that our schools are safe. All of us, therefore, called to do whatever we are expected to do, to ensure that our school communities and spaces do not become the new hotspots for Covid-19, “ she said Transport for pupils will meet health, safety and social distancing requirements for Covid-19. This will include transport for special needs pupils. Motshekga requested the public not to visit the schools from 8 May unless permission is received. This is to maintain safety and hygiene standards around Covid-19. Some KZN schools still need water tanks to be installed. The KZN MEC for Education, Kwazi Mshengu said that due to high numbers of Covid-19 positive cases in eThekwini and Ilembe districts, random Covid-19 testing in schools will take place.