Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the scourge of gender based violence (GBV) has been on the rise and after echoing calls for government to take greater action against GBV, president Cyril Ramaphosa condemned the surge in murders of women and children in SA, saying it has been ‘a dark and shameful week for us as a nation.’ The president called on all South Africans to end the culture of silence around GBV by reporting the perpetrators to the authorities. “Since the country entered the coronavirus alert level three, there has been an increase in gender based violence and femicide. It is a dark and shameful week for us as a nation. Criminals have descended to even greater depths of cruelty and callousness. It simply cannot continue,” said Ramaphosa. He noted that the attacks on women and children are rising especially at a time when the whole world is facing the gravest challenge of the pandemic. The president said that it seems as if men are taking advantage of the eased restrictions to attack women and children. Over the past week in KwaZulu-Natal police were called to a scene where an elderly woman was raped and a child was found dead in a field. Two other women were also shot dead. Ramaphosa said that the manner in which these defenseless women were killed pointed to an ‘unconscionable level of barbarism and lack of humanity’. Across the country families are still mourning the brutal killings of Tshegofatso Pule, 28, pregnant and was found on 5 June, hanged on a tree after she went missing for three days; Naledi Phangindawo, 25, attacked and axed by a man in Western Cape, Nompumelelo Tshaka,45, whose body was found dumped on a field in Mthatha also on 5 June. The president has assured the nation that ministers and deputy ministers would be meeting community leaders in all districts as part of national efforts to combat Covid-19 and as part of their visits would engage with communities on the issues of GBV in effort to work together to stop the killing of women and children. Jennifer Chetty, director of Durban based nonprofit organisation Sinaka Uthando, operating for 10 years, a power house of hope for women, offering women empowerment programs and counselling said: “Government is expecting people to stay at home to flatten the curve of the pandemic, however, for some women this is not safe. Women are unsafe in their own homes and fight a greater threat than the corona virus in the safety of their own homes.” Chetty said that there is a greater stress and pressure on women to watch their backs at work, public places and other safe havens to avoid becoming another statistic to GBV whilst some men deal with the Covid-19 and lockdown stresses by drinking and abusing or killing their partners in their fit of rage. She said that government should again take every step necessary during these strange and stressful times of Covid19 to ensure that men are more in control of their actions and women are protected. “Government should also provide more safe houses and other necessities for women, who want to stand up against her abuser, making the necessities to survive available to women, will empower women to leave abusive relationships. Much more needs to be achieved by Government to make our streets and other public places safe for women to enjoy just like our men counterparts. Most importantly safety and security of all in South Africa must continue to be a priority to Government as it is soon going to be another pandemic to fight,” said Chetty. She added that they have also had a number of cases reported in Durban with partners throwing out their wives during the night to sleep on the street, violent partners, abusive partners and the list goes on which continues to be reported to SAPS. “Women who are in abusive relationships should never be quiet about abuse, it is never an option, there is no shame in being a victim of any form or type of abusive. In fact some of the greatest and strongest women that empower others have been abused at some stage in their lives and have spoken out. She gave a few tips on how to act: · Ensure that someone you trust knows your situation. · Obtain a domestic violence interdict – it has proved to be a deterrent to many abusers; keep the warrant of arrest in a safe place. Do accept help from officials in obtaining an interdict. · Keep your important documents and some clothes at a friend or family, or any other safe place. · Save monies however little at a time. · Ensure that you have the police, friend and neighbour on a speed dial. · Take every measure to walk away from abusive relationships. · South Africa continues to be an unsafe place for women to travel at risk times, attempt to move in a group, don’t accept help from strangers for anything including the promise of jobs; and most importantly don’t trust people who say they love you but are not afraid of abusing you. · When you love yourself enough then you will be sure to attract the right kind of love you deserve. · Empower yourself – you owe that to yourself. Sinaka Uthando can be contacted for support on 031 4012744 or via WhatsApp on 076 0666 290 or 061 8133 633.