The Phoenix Religious Leaders Forum joined by other religious leaders heeded the call for a National Day of Prayer by President Cyril Ramaphosa. The forum conducted an inter-faith prayer at the Durban beach front. Ramaphosa declared Sunday, 31 May a National Day of Prayer ‘for the healing of our land and the protection of our people.’ The president urged all citizens to pray in their homes for divine intervention for the country to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic. Pastor Mervyn Reddy from the Phoenix Religious Leaders Forum said: “We’ve come together in the sense of Ubuntu, in oneness as proudly South African religious leaders, to say to our fellow South Africans that the time has come for us to unite because this pandemic does not seek a specific religion, faith or people that are wealthy or impoverished.” “It is here to infect and affect any South African irrespective of race, colour, creed or religion,” said Reddy. He said that by coming together as united religious leaders within the community, they stand together speaking the same message, that we need to unite in prayer in order for our country to be set free from the Covid-19 pandemic. “The coronavirus is something that is real, and can infect anybody at any given time and at any place. It has already caused destruction to the lives of many South Africans and caused demise to many that have passed on due to the virus. Our responsibility as religious leaders is to continue to pray, bringing our government, country and the people of South Africa under the prayer of God Almighty,” said Pst Reddy. He added that if there’s any situation that we are in right now, it is only the hand of God that can help us move forward and overcome. “We need to pray and ask God to have his way upon this country, our government but most importantly to heal the people of South Africa – to heal those that are infected and strengthen the families of those that have passed on due to Covid-19. The one lesson that Covid-19 has taught us is to come together, united as proud South African citizens, it has taught us to come together to serve and help each other, irrespective of whether you were poor, wealthy, a religious leader, a businessman, government official or a president of a country,” Reddy said. He urged all to stand in solidarity, support each other, educate each other and be responsible citizens. “By becoming responsible citizens, we have to make sure that we adhere to the regulations of Covid-19 as prescribed by the Disaster Management Act. We need to adhere to the president and the ministers of the National Command Council and the regulations as prescribed by the Department of Health. We need to use our masks, keep our social distance, sanitize on a regular basis and protect ourselves. By protecting ourselves, we protect the people that we come in contact with including our family members, friends, neighbours and colleagues,” added Pastor Reddy.