The Umuziwabantu Municipality has called for calm following the positive testing of an employee for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). This has forced the temporary closure of the municipal offices effective from Tuesday, 23 June. “The municipality would like to urge all its stakeholders to keep calm during this period as the situation is being managed in a manner that will ensure that no further spread of the virus emanates from this case,” municipal spokesperson Sihle Bruce Jalubani said. Municipal employees have been ordered into self-quarantine and the offices closed for sanitisation. “A majority of the employees have been ordered to work from home and return to work on Monday, 29 June, hence all services obtainable from municipal offices will not be available during this closure. Furthermore, all municipal offices were disinfected on Monday, 22 June, and cordoned off as a precautionary measure,” Jalubani said. According to the municipality the employee received confirmation of their test results over the weekend. The municipality then consulted with the relevant authorities to ensure that the matter is being handled by the relevant authorities and that all safety protocols are being observed. Jabulani said: “Subsequently, the person is already in isolation and receiving medical care, while all staff members who had come into contact with the particular employee have been traced and informed to self-isolate for a period of 14 days. As we enter the period of the peak of the pandemic, every person will be at risk of contracting the virus; therefore it is important that we adhere to all precautions to prevent the spread of the virus.” Those who can work from home have been urged to do so and those unable to have been advised to be smart and stay safe by keeping a 1.5 meter distance between yourself and the next person. Wear a mask at all times and if you feel sick stay at home and seek urgent medical care when experiencing any breathing difficulty. “All concerned stakeholders will be kept abreast of any pertinent developments relating to this matter,” Jabulani said.