Father’s Day is celebrated worldwide to recognize the contribution that fathers and father figures make to the lives of their children. This day celebrates fatherhood and male parenting. Although it is celebrated on a variety of dates worldwide, many countries observe this day on the third Sunday in June. Tabloid Newspapers chatted to two of Durban’s well known entrepreneurs, Nesan Pather and Vivian Reddy about fatherhood and what they have planned for the day. What does fathers day mean to you? A day where I sit back and savour all the love and appreciation and beautiful greetings from my amazing loving family. What are your father’s day traditions normally? Having breakfast in bed and unwrapping gifts and reading the most precious handmade cards made by my 2 children and my precious wife and a late lunch with my entire family. How will you celebrate father’s day during the lockdown? I am sure Sorisha will surprise me and there is a virtual zoom luncheon planned with the entire family. What is your favorite home cooked meal? My wife is a truly great cook and every meal is prepared in a special way and so much love goes into it like my daily cooked lunches sent to my office. Sorisha ‘s chicken curry is to “ die for “. It was the first meal she prepared for me when we first met. What has been your proudest moment as a father? The birth of all my 5 children and especially cutting the umbilical chord and hearing their first cry. Tell us about a funny experience you have had with your children? There are lots but the favorite is playing hide and seek and scaring them and splashing then with water and see them scatter and scream it’s priceless moments. What is the most valuable parenting advice or tip you received from a dad friend?Always be a role model to your children. Instill good values and integrity at an early age and family unity his paramount. What is your favorite activities with your children? Playing board games and watching movies What is your message for CORVID19 as a businessman? We must be cautious but not paranoid as life and business must go on. It’s also time for business to be unusual and to think out of the box. Remember you only have one life so be safe but use it to the fullest and spread love and uplift others. What is your message to the many dads celebrating fathers day for the first time? Make it very special and memorable so that years later those pics become amazing reflections of the past Nesan what is your definition of the perfect fathers day? That’s hard to say and as silly as it sounds, being a father is a perfect day in itself, but movies with my family, lazing around and playing with my children, is as simple and joyous as it could get. What was life like before becoming a dad and how has life changed? I don’t think anyone can prepare for how much children can change your life. For one I’m a lot more conscious about who I am and what my contribution is to the world knowing that my sons will base their lives a lot on what I say, do and teach. Secondly you become really good at time management! Lastly I think you learn so much about love, what it means to care unconditionally and want the best for someone else over yourself. Nesan you live a hectic life as a Radio Presenter how do you balance your life with your children? Between my profession, business and my beginnings in the broadcast industry, it used to be much more challenging. However I’ve taken steps especially during lockdown to use my time more efficiently and really only focus on the things that matter most. I’m an early riser and I plan my days well so I always ensure ample time with my sons. Did you prepare any meals during lockdown for the kids? Yes, with mixed results. I started off great but the kids eventually cast their votes. But Chef Dad is coming back soon! The world celebrates father’s day very differently this year. You have two little boys who may not understand the lockdown. Will it be different for you? They’ve been amazing throughout this time as they’ve understood it so well and every night for their prayers they always pray for the world and to make coronavirus leave the earth. I don’t think there’s a better way to spend Fathers Day than with your kids! What is your fondest moment as a dad? There really are so many! But on a daily basis it’s when they come to me for their help with games, questions, needing to build things and if they need to know anything. Daddy’s their hero and being the guy who in their eyes always knows so much is special. Do you believe father’s day is about gifts? Not at all. Though I always get so many from my family what’s most appreciated is the handmade and handcrafted items the boys make me every year. If you had to leave your sons with one thing what would it be? Hope. Hope is sometimes all we have and I always believe, if you can look up, you can get up. As parents we wish we could protect them from everything but what we really can only do is prepare them. Always being hopeful means you always try no matter what. Hope is that flicker of light that someday grows into a fire. Do you think your sons will follow in the path of entertainment considering both their parents are part of it ? It seems inevitable. We’re already being treated to home concerts and puppet shows and both boys are not shy or short of confidence! They’ve also started their own vlog called Ky and Zo Toytalk on Youtube! Finally what is your message to the dads on Father’s day? Spend time with your children. It’s probably what matters most to them. Being a dad is more than just providing or being the guy that builds the complicated robot kit or toy but about making sure they’re filled with enough ambition, resiliency, gratitude and wonder to be great and kind people in this world.