Just a week after being celebrated as an amazing husband and dad, a 43-year-old Sea Cow Lake father of one lost his life in the horrific truck crash on the N2 Umhlanga, on Friday. Three others, including the truck, a motorist and a passenger sustained critical to moderate injuries. Rishaal Singh was one of the critically injured casualties from the carnage when an out-of-control truck and trailer crashed into oncoming vehicles and careened down an embankment where it finally halted in an open field, on Friday. The truck driver and motorist of a Hyundai i20 sustained critical injuries. Singh was the driver of the Hyundai i20. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Phoenix Community Police Forum (CPF) chairman, Umesh Singh, said: “Rishaal Singh was my wife’s brother and we are devastated by his death. The family is shattered. He was admitted to hospital with critical injuries and passed away on Saturday morning. The family is struggling to come to terms with his death. He was snatched away from his family in such a sudden and painful manner. Rishaal was a loving family man. Humble and full of joy. His death has left a huge void in the family.”
Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, confirmed that a case of culpable homicide is being investigated at Phoenix SAPS. On Friday, the Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) Operations Centre received a call from a passing motorist reporting the accident. Rusa boss, Prem Balram, said: “On arrival at scene, Rusa members found that several ambulance services and the Ethekwini Fire and Rescue Services were in attendance. The driver of a Hyundai i20 was seriously injured in the head on collision. The Hyundai i20 then crashed into a white Toyota Yaris. After the initial crash, the horse and trailer crossed the north bound lane of the freeway before it travelled several metres down an embankment and came to a stop in an open field. The Jaws of Life was used to free the seriously injured driver from the truck.” Balram added that according to a witness, the truck was travelling south when it suddenly crossed the centre median and collided head on into the Hyundai i20. The north bound lane of the N2 was closed while emergency services rendered assistance to the injured.  Netcare 911 media liaison officer, Shawn Herbst said: “Two occupants from the truck were treated on scene while rescue services used hydraulic tools to free them from the wreckage. One person from a vehicle was critically injured and a fourth patient from one of the light motor vehicles had sustained moderate injuries. Once stabilised all the patients were transported by various ambulance services to hospital for further treatment.” According to Singh, the family endured much trauma while organising his brother-in-law’s funeral. “We struggled to determine which police station was investigating the matter and finally registered a case at Phoenix SAPS. Further to this, we endured a great deal of difficulty from the Phoenix morgue as a post mortem had to be conducted and we needed assistance for release of the body for the funeral on Sunday.” Singh said that it is sad that during these difficult times, grieving families have to face such distress as they prepare to lay their loved ones to rest. “I must however, commend the host of paramedics and rescue personnel on scene for their incredible service as well as the medical staff at Umhlanga Hospital. We are awaiting a full investigation from the relevant authorities. We need to know the circumstances that led to such a terrible accident that has robbed a family of a loved one. We urge motorists to ensure that their vehicles are roadworthy before they embark on a trip. Please adhere to the rules of the road and be mindful of other road users at all times,” said Singh.