The University of KwaZulu-Natal is ready for the return of a third of its students on 29 June. The university made the announcement on Monday, following two weeks of strategic and mitigated approach to minimise the health risk, especially as the numbers of confirmed Covid-19 cases are drastically rising nationally. Acting executive director of cooperate relations, Nomah Zondo said that the university doesn’t want to jeopardise the health and safety of students and therefore have confirmed the categories of students who will return to campus. “The following categories have now been confirmed for a return to campus under Level 3 Lockdown, final year undergraduate students in laboratory-based programmes, who are on track to complete their degrees in this academic year, students in programmes which are clinically-based, as determined by the College of Health Sciences, students with disabilities, SRC executive, student residence assistants, student life officers and residence assistant officers. Also returning will be the undergraduate students that have not been able to access ‘Moodle’, post-graduate students who require access to laboratory equipment.- each college has compiled lists, honours and post-graduate diploma students whose work is laboratory-based, students appointed as laboratory demonstrators for the students in the programmes that will be eligible to return to campus. Zondo said that the plan is that the first cohort of students returning to campus on Monday under Level 3 lockdown will be contacted individually by their various colleges during the course of the week to inform them of their eligibility to return to campus. “If the student has not been contacted, the student, must not return to campus. There will be stringent regulations with regard to the access of campuses and residences, and therefore students that are not in possession of a permit will be denied access,” said Zondo. She added that students who are at high risk of infection due to health issues, including co-morbidities, are encouraged not to return to campus and to continue with online teaching and learning. “There will be no contact teaching and learning, no physical lectures, except in laboratories. We encourage all students who can study online to continue to do so and not return to campus,” Zondo said. She emphasised that the colleges will be staggering the return of students to campus and that students must take note of the dates stipulated to them for their return to campus.
“Due to health and safety measures, and ensuring compliance with regulations, students may not necessarily be accommodated in the residence that they were allocated to in pre-lockdown. Eligible students will be informed of their assigned residences. Students returning to University-owned and leased residences will be expected to self-isolate for a period of 14 days on returning to the residence. Further details on health screening and training of students on health and safety etiquette will be provided shortly,” Zondo said. Students returning to campus will have to apply for permits. “We look forward to welcoming our students back to campus. However, we must emphasise that the return to campus will come with the expectation of a strong sense of personal and community responsibility, particularly with respect to compliance with regulations and adherence to all health and safety protocols. Every student returning to campus will have to consent and adhere to a strict code of conduct. Further details in this regard will be shared in the coming days,” Zondo said.