It has been an unbearable two weeks for a Caneside family whose loved one, Chadrakumar Hariparsad, 57, was critically injured in a serious hit and run incident outside his home. The grandfather and former truck driver is currently at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH), fighting for his life. His son, Aamir Shaik, told The Phoenix Tabloid that the family is distressed as they cannot visit their father due to Covid-19 restrictions at the hospital and also because the person responsible for driving into Hariparsad, is still at large. “My dad does not deserve to be in this position. He has sustained severe head injuries because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time and due to the recklessness of a cowardly driver. My dad’s neighbour was also injured in the hit and run incident but with minor injuries,” said Shaik. “We need this person, who is known and responsible for ramming into the crowd and causing life threatning injuries to my father, to come forward. How can this person live knowing that a person could die because of such reckless driving,’ Shaik added. The incident reportedly unfolded on Tuesday, 26 May, when the hit and run driver
was allegedly embroiled in an altercation with a family not far from Hariparsad’s residence. “Upon hearing the ruckus, my dad went outside to check what was happening. He was standing with other people and the driver of the silver Hyundai i10 came careening down the road and rammed into a group of people. “Sadly, my father was tossed into the air and hit the ground with his head slamming into the ground. I rushed my dad to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. There, he was treated and stabilised and transferred to Addington Hospital. My dad was then transferred to Albert Luthuli for an emergency operation,” said a worried Shaik. Hariparsad is back at MGMH and his family is desperate for news of his progress. “All we want is for my dad to recover and the perpetrator to face the consequences of his terrible actions. My dad left work to care for my ill mum. She passed away a year ago. Our family has been in limbo since then. My dad still grieves my mum and now we are praying desperately for my dad to recover. “We feel so helpless. This is a major trauma in my dad’s life and we cannot be with him. We want justice for my dad,” Shaik added. Acting chairman of the board at MGMH, Pastor Mervyn Reddy, was informed of the situation and immediately visited the hospital to check on Hariparsad’s progress. Reddy said: “Hariparsad is making slow progress following his operation at Albert Luthuli. He does speak but his injuries were severe and therefore it will take time for him to recover.” He said that staff are attending to the patient and they understand the family’s agitation at not being able to see their loved one. “However, we are bound by restrictions set out by the Department of Health and the government and we abide by them for the safety of the patient. We have also been advised that the person responsible for crashing into the patient could call and enquire of his progress, hence, nursing staff are not permitted to divulge information about the patient telephonically except to state that he is stable. “I am availing myself to the family should they require assurance of their loved one’s recovery as I understand their concerns,” Reddy added. Phoenix police are investigating a case of reckless and negligent driving. Anyone with information that can assist the family with the case, can contact Aamir Shaik on 065 941 3413.