A Phoenix male nurse has been found guilty of rape after he sexually violated a well known Durban North woman who was admitted to the Life Mount Edgecombe Hospital in 2017.The victim, Dr Tasjia Rose Reddy aka ‘Tash Reddy’, a former producer at East Coast Radio, writer, columnist, entrepreneur and Mrs Commonwealth 2020, is claiming a sum of R50 million compensation for damages following the incident. A rape case was registered and following due processes and legal proceedings spanning more than two years, the accused, Redfern resident, Remano Govender, was found guilty on 6 March 2020, and is awaiting sentencing. According to detailed reports and affidavits presented to the Phoenix Tabloid, the heinous crime unfolded on 27 June 2017 when Reddy (the plaintiff) was admitted to the hospital to undergo tests for cancer screening. Reddy claimed in court papers she was feeling very anxious and apprehensive about the tests and upon the departure of her husband from her ward, she was approached by a male nurse, Remano Govender, who then proceeded to attend to her.She (Reddy) stated that Govender engaged her in casual chitchat while he explained that he would need to conduct some examinations on her prior to her cancer testing. She further stated that Govender checked her neck for lumps, bruises and scars and moved lower to her chest area where he also checked her breasts through her top and informed her there were no abnormalities. Reddy claimed she did not feel the assessment was out of line at the time as she was to undergo tests for cancer and believed the tests were part of the procedure. She further claimed that Govender then donned surgical gloves and when she questioned him about what he was going to do, he informed her that he was going to conduct a vaginal examination following her (the victim’s) complaint of a bladder/kidney infection. Once again Reddy claimed she did not question Govender’s motive for the test as she believed it was routine. She stated that throughout the examination, she and Govender were engaged in casual banter and she believed at the time that he (Govender) sought to ease her fears with the chatter. It was only after the vaginal examination when Govender prodded Reddy by inserting his fingers inside her and he derived sexual arousal from the act, that the victim realised something was amiss. Reddy reported the matter to her husband and various health care personnel in the hospital as well as her attending doctor who she alleged was outraged at the time. Choosing to follow the legal route, she registered a case of rape at Phoenix SAPS and Govender was subsequently arrested. Life Mount Edgecombe Hospital reportedly conducted a disciplinary hearing and dismissed Govender from his position at the medical facility. Reddy claimed that Life Mount Edgecombe Hospital failed to empathise with her suffering and has made no effort to ease her pain and trauma. As she awaits the outcome of her claim, she noted in great detail the trauma she has endured since the vile incident. Reddy has highlighted her constant pain and suffering from the day she was violated, her battle with depression and suicidal tendencies until the present where she is still tormented by the horrors of the rape. She said: “After all I have gone through in my life, did I really have to have my pride, self worth and dignity taken away from me in the place I was supposed to feel safest, in a place meant to heal me, in a place I trusted with my being.Govender will be sentenced some time this month. Reddy’s attorney, Theasen Pillay said: “A patient going to hospital expects due care be provided. Violation of women is unacceptable under any circumstances. The tragedy of this reality begs to ask, how many other women have been victims without stepping forward. As a society we have to stand up and speak up. Our client was a victim of a vicious crime, one that both the perpetrator and the hospital must be held accountable for. We will leave no stone unturned in the pursuit of justice for our client.” Attempts to retrieve comment from the hospital at the time of going to press were unsuccessful. 