      A medical doctor and his friend tragically lost their lives in a horrific crash on JG Champion Drive off Viewhaven Drive in the early hours of this morning (Thursday). The deceased men have been identified as Dr Viraag Hansrajh, a Mr India South Africa finalist from Umhlanga and Yatish Devlal, believed to be from Canehaven Drive in Phoenix. KZN VIP Medical responded swiftly to the scene at approximately 02:30 after a passing motorist reported the serious crash. Spokesperson for KZN VIP Medical, Gareth Naidoo said: “Upon arrival of VIP Medics and VIP Response Teams at the scene, they found a black BMW which had veered on to an embankment and crashed into a tree. One of the occupants had been ejected from the vehicle whilst the other occupant was entrapped in the wreckage.
VIP Medics assessed both occupants of the vehicle but unfortunately they showed no signs of life and were declared deceased on scene.” “Members of the Fire Department were on scene to extricate one of the occupants from the carnage. One lane of the road had to be closed off by Metro Police. Phoenix SAPS was on scene and will investigate the circumstances surrounding the fatal crash,” added Naidoo. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo confirmed the accident and said: “On Thursday at 3am, police members responded to a complaint of a collision on Northern Drive (JG Champion Drive ). At the scene, the members found two males trapped in a black BMW. Both the men aged 26 years were declared deceased at the scene.
There was only one vehicle involved which veered had off the road. A case of Culpable Homicide is being investigated.” Tributes poured in for the deceased friends on social media as family and friends reacted with shock and horror at the news of the tragic accident. A Facebook comment on the KZN VIP Phoenix Crimewatch post read: “It was his birthday (Viraag) his friend came over to have dinner with him and just after 2a.m he was taking his friend back home from Somerset Park to Phoenix…but his Friend wanted to drive the car and he lost control of it. Sad passing away just 2hours after his birthday.” sic Another comment stated: “Rest Easy Viraag and Yatish.” sic