The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) said that it has been receiving many grievances about the declined R350 Social Distress Relief grant applications, which did not meet the approval requirements. However, according to the agency, the majority of rejected applications are from people who are already on the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) database or qualifying to receive it. They are now advising claimants to contact the Department of Employment and Labour to either apply for UIF or follow up with their applications. According to Sassa, for one to qualify for the Covid-19 grant, they must be either unemployed without any kind of income, or not receiving any kind of government assistance, such as UIF and the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (Nsfas).
They must also not be recipients of any social grants or any other financial support and must be above the age of 18. Sassa said they are verifying all applications by matching their data with other public and private databases to eliminate possibilities of “double-dipping”, to ensure that only deserving applicants receive this financial aid. Sassa CEO, Totsie Memela said, they are aware this has caused unhappiness from applicants. She urged people to familiarise themselves with the criteria. “We are doing everything in our power to solve the matter and a dedicated email address and phone numbers have been made available to process complaints. “Those who feel aggrieved should either call 0800 60 10 11 or email srd@sassa .gov.za with their complaints to access the recourse mechanism. We aim to pay the right grant to the right people,” said Memela. According to the agency, 3.2 million applicants have been approved, while 1.2 million have been paid already. While applications are processed daily, the major delays come from the necessary verification methods, which SASSA has to do with other institutions. The CEO has also advised beneficiaries to use their own accounts, not those of others, and to ensure their details are exactly as they appear on their identity document.