With the tourism industry taking a knock during the Covid-19 lockdown, locals are encouraged to take advantage of the relaxed lockdown restrictions by visiting tourist hotspots to rewind and relax. In line with this, Inanda Adventure Park owner Futhi Sibiya, has said that people should explore local tourism destinations. The adventure park which is situated in the outskirts of Durban in Inanda, Eskebeni, was established by the Green Corridor NPC a few years ago. It offers various outdoor activities for the Durban community and international tourists at large. According to Sibiya, ever since the commencement of the lockdown, the park has been tremendously affected and had to shut down with no activities as per Covid-19 regulations. “When lockdown started, we had numerous cancellations and refunds had to be made which was really bad for business. We had no income thoughout the entire period. When we sent our application for the government relief fund, we never received a response to date, so it was a really difficult period for me and the staff,” said Sibiya. He said that the relaxed regulations have in turn boosted the business and since they opened on 2 August, they have seen numerous groups visiting the park which is close to the famous Inanda Dam. “We offer hiking on three trails, a mountain biking trail where cyclists can bring their own bikes, guided canoeing on the dam, a picnic site, team building and many more,” Sibiya said.He said that new adventures are on the cards for the park as they will be launching a tent and cabin camping site next month. “The park is child friendly as well as most of our activities. It is simple and easily accessible for those with their own transport and those taking public transport. It is a great way for families and friends to take some time out to have some fun, while giving their bodies a healthy treat. It is also a great opportunity to meet people, connect with friends with no disruptions,” said Sibiya. The fact that the park is in a rural community is a bonus especially because it gives people an opportunity to experience the rural lifestyle. “The adventure park also serves as a connection of multiracial communities and brings about economic development to the community of Inanda. The more people visit this community, the more we undermine the urban and rural division in our society,” said Sibiya. Sibiya invites tourists and adventurists to come explore Inanda and to celebrate the freedom of the Level 2 lockdown regulations after spending five months indoors. He further assured the community that the park adheres to all Covid-19 protocol as per government regulations. To find out more on the Inanda Adventure Park visit them on their social media pages, the Green Corridor website or by calling them on 031 518 2002 or 031 322 6026.