The warm pre-spring air takes us to a home in Fairleigh to meet Candice Carls, a supermom who is not only juggling a demanding career coupled with family life, but who also has to care for her special needs baby. The Newcastle Express spoke to Candice about her journey with her 17-month-old special needs baby, Dominique Carl. Baby Dominique, was born with a congenital heart defect. The right side of her heart is undeveloped. “Our journey began as soon as she was born,” says the mother. “She was unresponsive at birth and had suffered a seizure. She was in hospital for about two weeks. It was only when she was stable enough could we welcome our baby home.” A few weeks later she had the symptoms of a mild cold and began coughing. The family then took her to a paediatrician who referred them to a paediatrician cardiologist in Gauteng. After extensive check ups, it was discovered that Baby Dominique had a heart murmur . She was then diagnosed as having an extensive heart complex. “ This means that the right side of her heart is not developed and there is a hole in the left ventricle. So there is no wall between the left and right chambers of the heart. There was a common mixing of blood and so her heart was having a difficult time pumping which in turn made it difficult for Dominique to breathe,” explains Candice. Two months later, Dominique had her first surgery, Pulmonary Artery Banding which is a surgical technique to reduce excessive pulmonary blood flow in infants suffering from congenital heart defects. She also had a respiratory syncytial virus which is common and very contagious. She was hospitalized for two and a half months during which time she suffered a heart attack at just four months old. “With this virus she suffered some injury to her brain. She is now a special needs baby and will need intense neurological physical therapy which costs a pretty penny,” says Candice, struggling to hold back her tears. “We are trying our best to raise funds as well as awareness about this condition as it is not very well known. It also gets very tough for me as a mother with three other children who also need my attention. I try my best. There are days when it is hard to cope but I just have to soldier on,” said Carls. 