A woman free to be who she was born to be, courageous in pursuing her purpose and who is fearless in everything that sets her soul alight, Rukaya Mansoor, founder of Women of the World (WoW), a female empowerment initiative based in Durban, is a woman on fire. WoW is an online platform, established in 2018, with the aim to uplift and inspire women coming from different backgrounds as well as being a steady female support structure to women across South Africa. “I recall a few years ago, I was in search of inspiration and something that could overall improve my life. I attended many women empowering events and found that I could not relate to any of it, basically, what I had been searching for, could not be found. So, one morning I woke up and decided that I want to start an initiative, a platform to inspire and empower women like myself and that is basically how ‘WoW’ came about,” Mansoor said. Being a strong advocate for women empowerment and finding a balance in her busy yet impressive lifestyle, the mid-twenties research and development chemist believes that empowering the women around her was instilled in her from a very young age and has always been deemed as necessary. “I was brought up in a family which mainly consists of women, so naturally, I was constantly surrounded by strong and supportive females who always pushed me to do my very best. I guess that is what I wanted my platform to be for other women. An online presence they can lean on and in return, receive the support of many strong women.” The female empowerment initiative which stands for uplifting women, hosts empowering events annually in Durban, Cape Town and Johannesburg to celebrate ‘womanhood’ and share stories of inspiration, however, due to the novel coronavirus, all plans made had been postponed. “With Covid-19, we do not really have the ability to host events, which is upsetting because I love hearing about women feeling empowered and left inspired towards the end of my events, it is also something that we look forward to each year. However, there are plans being put into place to host an online webinar. “We just want to reconnect and remind women that whatever is happening right now, whatever we are going through, will not last forever and we will get through it,” Mansoor said. The Overport resident emphasises that the global pandemic is not a time for women to give up on their hopes and dreams and should not allow the effects of Covid-19 to negatively impact their mental health and well-being but rather use this time to take back their power and own the power they already have within themselves. “I would like to be that reminder to women that they can always come out on top, that they have the power to do whatever they set their minds to.” WoW being a platform of support and encouragement for women across South Africa, is a goal achieved on Mansoor’s list. She is hopeful to one day extend to places outside of SA and reach out to women in all parts of the world.