Police have extended the amnesty period by six months to allow all illegal firearm holders to hand over their unwanted guns. Colonel Brenda Muridili, national police spokesperson, said that the extension period which commenced from 1 August closes on 31 January 2021, was recently approved by the parliament. The previous amnesty period expired in May 2020. Muridili said this window saw a hampered by the unexpected Covid-19 pandemic. Despite this, police received a resounding 46 714 firearms. Durban Central Police communications office Captain Muzi Maphumulo said that during the last period, the Durban Central police only received three amnesty application, however, appeals to the community to come forward and hand over firearms at the nearest police station. He said that SAPS believes that there are much more firearms out there not just in Durban but, nationally. “At times people think firearms are inherited, however that is not the case. If a father or a brother has a firearm license it doesn’t mean that when he dies it automatically belongs to the next person in the family. If a person has a firearm license in their name that license will only be valid for them and not all his or her family members,” said Maphumulo. He emphasised that should a family want to keep a firearm of a deceased they should have to take it to the nearest police station for safety while they are processing a license application. “Once the license is approved then whoever made the application will be the rightful owner of that firearm. “We are urging people to take advantage of this period either to hand in those firearms and ammunition either for destruction or renewal of a competency certificate and a valid license,” he added. He also appealed to firearm owners who have more than one firearm to keep one and hand the rest to the police before it lands in the wrong persons hands resulting in a crime. “It must be noted that no indemnity will be granted for firearms used to commit any crime.
“All firearms that have been handed in will undergo ballistic testing to ensure that they have not been used in the commission of any crimes, before they can be considered for destruction,” Maphumulo said. For Firearm Amnesty enquiries, please contact FLASH Call Centre at *012 353 6111 , or email on cfrenquiry@saps.gov.za.