The Phoenix Community Health Centre, known as the Unit 10 Clinic, has landed in hot water after they allegedly refused to treat a pregnant woman. Lydia Naidoo, 28-year-old, claimed that she went to the clinic on 10 August only to be told by nurses that she could not be assisted because she was not “their patient”. The heavily pregnant mother was told to go to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital for treatment where she later lost her baby. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid Lydia’s mother Viggie Naidoo said: “My daughter began experiencing contractions around 6pm on Monday and we decided to rush her to the nearest health facility being the Unit 10 Clinic. Upon arrival, Lydia was taken to the maternity wards and we were told to go home. We live in Dewstone, Whetstone which is a five minutes walk from the Unit 10 clinic. We had just arrived home when my son-in-law saw her walking back home and alerted us.” She said that they were in such shock to see Lydia walking and they rushed to her, put her in the car and drove her to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. “Lydia said that the nurses checked her sugar and blood pressure and questioned what she was doing at the clinic as she was not their patient. She told them that she was in labour and came to the clinic because it was close by. The nurses refused to treat her and told her that she must go to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital,” said Naidoo. Lydia’s older sister, Shalen Mohammad said upon arrival at MGMH, Lydia was taken to the maternity wards. “The security said she must sit on a chair for screening before they put her on the bed. They gave me a slip to make a chart for her, I made the chart, went back to the wards and handed it over to security before leaving the hospital. I had just left and decided to call and check up on Lydia. She was hysterical and said she just lost the baby. We rushed back to the hospital but were denied access to go inside,” said Mohammad. “It was sad to see my sister going through so much pain only to lose her baby. The doctor at the hospital confirmed that her blood pressure and sugar was too high which resulted in her losing the child. I have laid a complaint at the Unit 10 clinic, questioning why they refused to treat my sister immediately knowing very well that her sugar and blood pressure was too high. When we enquired about the nurses who saw to her that evening, they refused to give us any information. We are very upset with the behaviour of some medical staff at this clinic, my sister needs closure, we need to know that the department of health will be taking the necessary steps to ascertain who was responsible for this and deal with them accordingly,” added Mohammad. Naidoo added: “The baby could have survived if my daughter was not denied treatment because she was not a patient at the clinic. Such behaviour is unethical and unacceptable. Too many lives have been lost due to the incompetence of the medical staff at this clinic. We need urgent intervention at this facility – enough is enough,” said the irate mother. Spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health Ntokozo Maphisa said: “Firstly, without prejudice, the department sends its condolences to the affected family. Although preliminary evidence is contrary to what is being alleged, the department is not at liberty to divulge the clinical details herein, in keeping with the law and also because this matter is under investigation.” When questioned if it was clinic policy that a person who is not a patient at the clinic cannot be treated at the facility, Maphisa said that it is not clinic policy because every patient is seen and those who are high risk are referred to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital according to the referral protocol and transferred via EMS if required. “All patients seeking health care are seen in the facility and managed according to their risk and those that are high risk are referred to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital for further management. No patients are turned away, they are first seen and managed as per the CHC package of services and level of care and then referred upwards or downwards as per clinical protocols. If any patient experiences challenges in this regard, they are urged to contact the office of the facility’s public relations officer or the operations manager,” added Maphisa.