The notorious rock throwing incidents have resurfaced and motorists are fearful their lives and that of their passengers are at risk once again. This comes after a spate of rock throwing incidents were reported from the pedestrian bridge before the M19 turn off in the vicinity of Queen Nandi Drive, recently. The incidents were exposed on social media and caught the attention of the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli, who has directed law enforcement agencies to stay on high alert and increase monitoring of bridges on highways following the “resurgence” of rock throwing incidents. “Several incidents were reported last week in Durban where motorists were targeted by a syndicate throwing stones on highways and then robbing them of their belongings.
“These unfortunate and inhuman incidents are targeting N2 bridges in Durban and are posing serious threats to the lives of motorists and other road users. Police believe that the motive behind these incidents is to hijack vehicles or rob motorists. The modus operandi is that once a rock is thrown, the motorist is then forced to stop, after which, they may be attacked,” the Department of Community Safety and Liaison stated. A Durban couple narrowly escaped serious injuries when a brick was thrown at their vehicle on the N2 after Queen Nandi Drive, at the weekend. Kate Levenstein shared on Facebook: “People, please be careful. They are throwing rocks and bricks off the bridges on the N2 again. Gavin and I were on our way home on the N2 this evening going from uMhlanga to Durban. They threw a brick at us from the pedestrian bridge after Nandi Drive but before the M19 turn off. Luckily it went through the centre of the windscreen and through to the back seat. We made it home fine and are ok. Please warn everyone you know.” Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, Levenstein said: “We were lucky to have escaped without serious injury. The situation could have been worse. My husband and I saw rocks and debris on the road. We assumed that a truck had lost its load. Then the brick came crashing through the windscreen. It struck my arm and landed on the back seat. We could have been seriously injured. I called the police from the car and informed them of the incident and was told that they are aware of it and was sending a unit out to investigate.” Levenstein added: “On Sunday morning we reported the incident at Westville police station. There was not much interest shown. We received an incident report number only. It did not appear to be a serious situation to police.” MEC Ntuli said: “We view these incidents happening on the bridges as senseless and such criminality is placing the lives of innocent road users at risk. The criminal syndicates targeting these bridges in Durban will soon be clamped down. We want all those who are involved in this criminal act to be arrested and harsher sentences must be meted out against them. We call on the law enforcement agencies to develop a clear strategy and improve visibility. We are also calling on motorists to be observant when approaching bridges and not to stop under any circumstance, but rather to remain calm and drive to the nearest police station or petrol service station from where they can call the police.” “The multi- disciplinary security plan to be developed will include among others the South African Police Services, Road Traffic Inspectorate, Intelligence, municipalities and private security companies. The Department of Community Safety and Liaison has also been tasked to work out a monitoring plan to ensure the successful implementation of this strategy and to mobilize community crime fighting structures. Incidents of a similar nature did take place a few years ago, however a joint task team involving various government agencies worked tirelessly to eradicate these incidents, with some cases securing court conviction. This intervention was implemented following numerous reports that rocks and bricks were being thrown at vehicles from overhead bridges,” Department of Community Safety and Liaison said. Sydenham SAPS communications officer, Captain Myen Lazarus said the incidents are reported to be occurring near the Petroport vicinity. He added that a docket was opened and transferred to Greenwood Park for further investigation. “Motorists need to be vigilant. There were at least 10 other cars pulled over to the side when we were hit. Police need to take this matter seriously. More lives can be lost due to these violent attacks,” Levenstein said. Anyone who may be witnessing suspicious individuals or groupings along overhead bridges must contact the following numbers: SAPS on 10111. Department of Community Safety and Liaison WhatsApp number on
063 697 9569.