Acting uThukela District SAPS commander Brigadier Francis Bantham broke down in tears, during a speech at the memorial service of the late Ezakheni constable, Thandeka Sikhahkhane, held at the constables Peacetown home on Monday, 24 August. Sikhahkhane was shot eight times in an armed robbery at Ezakheni B-section. The officer was on her way to report for duty at the Ezakheni Station when she was gunned down in her uniform on 18 August. “Constable Sikhahkhane left her home, in full uniform to protect and serve her community as she had done for almost seven years,” said Bantham, who could not fight back the emotions during the memorial service and the handing over of the South African flag to her grieving family. The brigadier added that not only are they grieving the death of the constable, but those of four other women who were tragically killed, during August, Women’s Month. “This is supposed to be a time, where we honour our women, our sisters, our mothers, our grandmothers, our daughters and mothers, who are the backbone of the society,” wept Brigadier Bantham. SAPS officers, Alfred Duma Mayor, Cllr Vincent Madlala and uThukela Mayor, Siphiwe Mazibuko, paid their respects and remembered the fallen constable for her service to her country and community. ” Today, we are here to hand over the flag of our country, no ordinary citizen can be given the South African flag, but to an officer that has sacrificed her life protecting and serving her community,” said Madlala, who handed over the South African flag to the family. Madlala thanked the family for their unselfish sacrifice of their child and called the criminal suspects cowards. “We as a community should respect our police officers, as they are the ones that fight day and night to keep the crime from our front door,” said Madlala. He added that he will leave the hurt and pain of the family and those SAPS members who have been affected by the constable’s death at the feet of God and pray that they receive strength and grace during this difficult time. The somber atmosphere was riddled with sorrow, as SAPS officials wept for one of their own. Constable Sikhahkhane was described by her SAPS family, as a front line fighter against crime. Officials said that she was humble, but never stood still when it came to the community of Ezakheni and had always gone the extra mile, multitasking to ensure that her work was done. “Constable Thandeka Sikhahkhane was an SAPS member that anyone would be proud to have worked with. She will be missed,” said SAPS officials. The SAPS welcomed the arrest of nine men, aged between 19 and 44 for their involvement in the brutal shooting of the constable. The nine will be charged for murder, armed robbery, illegal possession of firearms and ammunition as well as possession of suspected stolen property. Their arrests come, after a team from Ezakheni SAPS and Crime intelligence made a breakthrough in their investigation, when they arrested the first suspect who was found in possession of the police officer’s firearm. Later, eight other suspects were arrested and the suspected murder weapon was seized by police. “While these arrests will not bring back our dearly departed member, we at least take comfort that her killers are in custody. The team from Ezakheni is commended for their dedication. We ask that the investigators ensure that these men face the full might of the law,” said Lieutenant General Jula. It was also reported that one of the nine suspects died in police custody over the weekend after taking poison. Police will conduct further investigations into the incident.