Chaos reigned on Hydepark Circle in Shastri Park on Sunday evening when an off-duty police officer is alleged to have fired shots in the wake of an earlier dispute at a car wash leaving two men shot while he (police officer) was knocked down by a motorist in the midst of the gunfire. All three casualties were transported to hospital. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo said that the off-duty police officer is stationed at the Durban Flying Squad. It is alleged that the police officer and a few of his friends and family members went to the scene at Hydepark, Trenance Park, in order to resolve some dispute that had taken place earlier in the day. “The group is believed to operate under the leadership of the police member. When they approached the scene which is a car wash, they went on a rampage assaulting people at the car wash with objects like iron pipes, wheel spanners and bricks. They basically assaulted anyone and everyone including customers from a nearby shop. This attack was unprovoked,” Naidoo said. She said that in the process, vehicles were damaged with bricks and on some they were booted. “As the attack gained momentum, the police member began shooting indiscriminately at some vehicles. One person who was trying to avoid any further shooting to his vehicle, took off and in a bid to escape, he collided with the member and subsequently knocked a light pole and came to an abrupt stop. “As the driver jumped off and began running, one of the police member’s friends grabbed the firearm from the member who was already injured and chased the driver, shooting him thrice,” Naidoo added. She said the members of the Phoenix Crime Prevention Unit who were in the area, responded swiftly, and managed to arrest three of the suspects. “As they (police) approached the scene, the suspect was still in possession of the firearm. A state issued firearm was retrieved. Twelve spent cartridges and one spent round was also retrieved. The police member was taken to hospital and he is in a stable condition and admitted for observation,” said Naidoo. “The motive for the attack is vengeance. Three men between the ages of 26 and 28 years old were arrested and are in police custody. They will be charged and will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court at a later stage,” Naidoo said. According to Naidoo, the driver who tried to get away from the scene sustained three gunshot wounds and was critical. “He was rushed to theatre for an emergency surgery. Another person also sustained a gunshot injury to his back and may be perceived as being shot by another of the gang members. He is in a stable condition,” Naidoo added. Gareth Naidoo of KZN VIP said that VIP Medics treated and stabilised the off-duty police member on scene and transported him to hospital. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) members responded to the scene and head of Rusa, Prem Balram, said: “Details surrounding the incident are unclear at this stage, however, it is alleged that three men approached a silver Toyota Etios Cross and opened fire on the occupants. The driver sped off but knocked into a light pole while an off-duty policeman was run over in the process. The motive for the shooting is suspected to be drug related, however, this could not be confirmed.”