Ensuring justice is served for victims of crimes and their family is one of Amanzimtoti SAPS officer, Constable Lungisani Prosperous Gumede’s, main goals in choosing a career as a police officer. The others are to remove dangerous criminals off the street and fight crime. This dedicated police officer has received a number of outstanding convictions and continues to have great success as a detective in the South African Police Services.
Constable Gumede began his career in the SAPS in 2012, after completing his student police training in Philipi, Cape Town. He was immediately placed at Amanzimtoti Detective Branch under the mentorship and guidance of Cpt Thembinkosi Cedric Nyawose, who played a huge role in him attaining his success today. Constable Gumede said: “The hardest part of being a good detective is collecting the information and evidence and putting it all together. Patience is required and it is a 24 hour responsibility to carry your cases and constantly think about how to solve them.” He encourages other young detectives to keep learning and growing. “A good detective is never born. One must keep learning and growing. Ensure you respect and appreciate senior members with experience around you and learn from them. This kept me in good stead,” said Constable Gumede. “It is always important to be patient, have an eye for detail, creative thinking, observation skills, as well as good listening skills. Always stay alert as a detective. Many of these qualities make a good detective,” Constable Gumede added.
Recently, Constable Gumede received three outstanding convictions for his investigation cases at Amanzimtoti SAPS and continues to have great success. The first case was a Business Robbery and Murder that occurred at a shop at Doonside Beach in 2017. Two suspects were arrested and on 10 February 2020 convicted on both charges. The first accused, Mthembeni Diphu (22) and second accused, Simon Nyathi (32) were convicted and each received 25 years imprisonment. Both accused were also found to be unfit to possess a firearm. The second case was Business Robbery and Murder, where a foreigner was murdered and his shop robbed. Two accused were arrested and found guilty on both counts. Dillyn Adams (18) was convicted and sentenced to 12 years imprisonment. Sakhile Zamani Mtolo (33) was sentenced to life imprisonment. The third case was Robbery Aggravated and Housebreaking, in Dan Pienaar Road in Amanzimtoti. The accused Lunga Ndlovu (31) received eight years imprisonment on 31 July 2020 at W court, Durban Regional Court, he was also found to be unfit to possess a firearm. Constable Gumede’s hard work and professionalism has always secured him excellent and fair sentences. It pleases him to see justice prevail in his cases and it pushes him to pursue evidence and leads in his investigations with precision and endurance. These convictions are a great motivator for him to continue to give the best of himself to the community. Major General Vukani Mgobhozi, Ethekwini District Commissioner said: “It is detectives like Constable Gumede, who clearly display a passion for his work which yields excellent convictions. His professional investigation skills help to permanently remove dangerous criminals off our streets, and secure life sentences and long term deserving sentences. Well done Constable Gumede.”