Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize is satisfied that there are adequate facilities to house Covid-19 patients in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) as the province overtook Western Cape to record the second-highest number of Covid-19 infections. Mkhize said that Covid-19 case numbers are expected to continue rising in the coming weeks but have assured residents that KZN is ready to handle the expected spike.“We are still expecting that we will have another two to three weeks of a very high level of positive cases but we are really looking beyond that point.” he said. As at 12 August, the total number of positive Covid-19 cases in KZN surged to 100 494 and 1523 deaths have been reported whilst 56 758 people have recovered from the virus. Mkhize had visited the province last week with visits to Utrecht Niemeyer Memorial Hospital and Madadeni Hospital. “We have adequate space to accommodate those who need to be accommodated and we also want to encourage people who have got other conditions like diabetes and hypertension to continue to use our hospitals. When we say we want to give attention to Covid-19, we are not saying we are not going to be treating other diseases. They are just as important,” he said in a media briefing. Mkhize explained: “We did say that we wanted to defer the surge so that we can prepare our health facilities and this has happened. We are actually not at the point of overloaded or overcrowded. We have stuck to all the commitments we have made in terms of where we are going to put hospital beds and refurbish hospitals.” Mkhize acknowledged that there are challenges in some hospitals which the department is working to fix. “Yes, there are pre-existing challenges in some hospitals. We are working on that. It is part of what we need to correct to improve the quality of healthcare. We will still continue to call upon our staff to continue doing the work they are doing. They must speak out: when there are conditions that are unsatisfactory, they must speak out; when there is not adequate protection, they must speak out,” he said. “Like soldiers in a battle, they need to go into a battle well trained, well prepared and well protected. We have also sent a message to our administration that where management is shown to be lax, we must take strong action,” said Mkhize. The Health minister reemphasized the need for frequent hand washing and sanitizing, wearing face masks in public and social distancing. He said: “If we don’t, there is a huge risk that when we open up more economic activity, we are likely to get the numbers going up again.”