Raging protesters from the informal settlement on Unity Avenue, Bayview, are demanding that justice be served for a pregnant woman who was found dead in a public toilet, on Thursday, 6 August. On Monday, 17 August, scores of residents marched along Lenny Naidu Drive and Silverglen Drive, allegedly firing shots and jumping into resident’s properties, in a bid to get attention. This was a different scene from the initial peaceful protest that was held on 12 August. The protesters had marched to the Bayview SAPS offices and demanded that the police handover the post-mortem results of the deceased and for a murder case to be investigated. According to Mike Magola, a resident from the informal settlement, the community suspect that the deceased, who was four months pregnant, was killed by her husband. He said: “The 29-year-old woman was found dead in a public toilet in the settlement and her husband has not been seen since. As the community and her friend we want to know the cause the of death and for it not to be hidden under the carpet. If she was murdered, we will not rest until the suspect faces the full might of the law.” Brandon Pillay, chairman of the Bayview Community Policing Forum, said that the community had the right to be angry and to demand justice for the deceased. He said: “This is beyond humanity, to kill a pregnant woman and during Women’s Month, it goes to show a blatant disregard for anything in our country and human life.” He said that the country is in the middle of fighting a global pandemic and gender-based violence (GBV). Pillay said, like all other cases that have occurred in the country, he hopes that the residents can also get the high level intervention to get to the bottom of this and ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book. “The community is fed up of criminal elements and cannot sit back any longer. Judging from what took place, although I do not condone protests, it is a clear sign that community members have had enough of such incidents. It is sad that in most communities, we are overcome by so many criminal elements and individuals who seem to be above the law. I trust that the law enforcement will give this case the highest level of intervention and protect our women and children,” Pillay said. Bayview SAPS have confirmed that investigations is underway after the body of a female was discovered in Unity Avenue on Thursday, 6 August. Warrant Officer Collin Chetty, communications officer of Bayview SAPS, said that an inquest has been opened to determine the cause of death. “Police are investigating the matter. If anyone has information regarding the incident, call Warrant Officer Babs Perumal on 074 315 4776,” Chetty said.   