 Mourning families are being forced to fork out more than double the expected cremation tariff at alternative sites as gas supplies for the crematorium run by the eThekwini municipality has fizzled out. Yogis Govender, DA exco member and also PR councillor in ward 62 told the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid that the Tongaat Crematorium closed on 27 July, due to a shortage of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). She said that the gas has not been delivered to the site because the municipality had allegedly failed to pay the supplier. Govender said that she has been inundated with calls from the community looking to use the facilities at their time of grief. “This is a gross oversight by the municipality and this untenable and unacceptable situation, which repeats itself each year. I wrote to the Department of Parks, Recreation and Culture and raised the matter at the municipal Covid-19 task team meeting last Thursday. Shockingly, the department said they needed 24 hours to respond to the query,” she said.
Govender said that when the department responded, they stated that they were experiencing contractual issues at their supply chain management. “As a resident I reject this with contempt. Again, this is poor management and poor planning from the municipality. I was told by the department that they depend on supply chain management to deal with issues of tenders and contracts that are required for operational reasons within the unit, therefore, it has no 100 percent control of the processes that are to be fulfilled prior to the end product,” she said. Govender said that the department’s response, revealed that the unit has gone out for a three quote system to urgently address the situation. Monday, 3 August, was earmarked as the targeted date for gas delivery at Tongaat Crematorium by the supplier to be appointed on 31 July 2020. “This approach will take us to two months and thereafter the new three year contract, which is being prepared by supply chain management,” she said.
Ward 61 Councillor Dolly Munien, said that the failure by the municipality to provide gas to the facility has impacted badly on the disadvantaged. “People are unable to afford the costs to transfer all of the funeral rites and proceedings to other cemeteries. There must be an investigation as to why Tongaat Crematorium always runs out of gas,” she said. Vanessa Naidoo, a resident, said that they now have to transport their loved ones from Tongaat to the Verulam crematorium or other facilities. She said that this led to a spike in funeral costs.
“This has crippled us as we are already struggling due to a reduced income because of Covid-19. We now have to take our loved ones to Verulam Crematorium, which is an additional cost,” she said. Naidoo added that because of the cultural norms and practices of Indians, the gas shortage had delayed the cremation process for many families. Msawakhe Mayisela, municipal spokesperson, confirmed the gas shortages.
He said: “We took a decision to temporarily close the Tongaat Crematorium on 27 July while awaiting replenishment of its gas supply. The order was expected to arrive on 3 August. We will therefore prepare to open the facility to the public again.” Mayisela did not mention when the facility will be reopened or when the gas will be delivered to the site. “We apologise for the inconvenience caused to our residents. Systems have also been put in place to ensure that we never have a delay in supply in future in order to ensure that we always expedite service delivery to our residents,” he added.