EThekwini Municipality Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has urged residents to cooperate with government in flattening the curve as eThekwini has become the epicentre of the dreaded coronavirus (Covid-19) in KwaZulu-Natal. Kaunda further warned of an expected upsurge in new Covid-19 infections in the coming weeks. This, after the latest Covid-19 positive cases in KwaZulu-Zulu climbed to 99 386 as at 11 August with 1 450 people having succumbed to the deadly coronavirus and 56 758 people recovered from the disease. In eThekwini, there are 46 620 confirmed Covid-19 cases with 729 deaths and 26 603 recoveries. Kaunda has called on eThekwini residents to be vigilant and to continue to abide by the lockdown regulations to slow down the coronavirus infection rate. Over the weekend, the mayor embarked on an awareness campaign in various public transport facilities including taxi and bus ranks. Kaunda urged the community to exercise caution in the coming days. He said: “Let us continue to stay at home and only be outdoors when it is necessary to get medical assistance, groceries or making our way to places of employment. Ensure that you wear your mask at all times – covering your mouth and nose – wash your hands with soap or hand sanitiser and maintain social distance at all times,” He reiterated that those attending funerals must adhere to safety protocols by keeping the number of mourners below 50, including family members. “Under lockdown regulations, we must also remember that social gatherings like weddings and parties are still not permitted as the country is still grappling with the pandemic. Let us be responsible citizens by reporting those who are flouting the lockdown regulations to law enforcement agencies,” he said. Kaunda also urged employees to allow older persons or persons with underlying health conditions to work from home or be away from the workplace because they are more susceptible to the pandemic. “The lockdown regulations allow for this to take place provided that a medical certificate is produced to that effect and is presented to the employer,” he said. Kaunda encouraged residents to practice healthy living during this difficult time by regularly exercising and consuming foods that boost the immune system.  He encouraged residents to drink warm water with lemon, ginger and garlic and to exercise in the comfort of our homes or as stipulated by the lockdown regulations to ensure that our bodies are strong enough to fight off the virus. He explained that if we follow the lockdown regulations appropriately at all times, we will contribute significantly to flattening the curve. “As a nation, we shall overcome the virus as we have triumphed in many other challenging situations before. There will come a time when these devastating times will be a thing of the past but it requires that we unite and work together. Let us all cooperate with government by adhering to the lockdown regulations to flatten the curve and slow down the coronavirus infection rate,” said Kaunda.