Living a life of crime to pave his way out of poverty, Sanele “Bheseni” Ngubane from Clairmont did not know that the very same person he stole from would be the one to take him out of crime by offering him a job. Siya Gasa, a victim of Ngubane’s criminal ways looked beyond his anger and decided to fix the problem from its root when his bag was stolen from his parked car. Speaking to The Westville Weekly Gazette, Gasa told of his encounter with Ngubane and what led him to offer him a job. “I had parked my car at the corner of Broad Street in the Durban CBD, when I came back, I discovered that my bag was missing. When I looked for the car guard, he was nowhere to be found. I found it puzzling that he conveniently disappeared when my things went missing. So I decided to profile him with the aim of tracing him,” explained Gasa. He said that after managing to put a name to this car guard, he decided to go in search of him the next day. “My friend and I decided to go back to the same place where I had parked my car a day before just to observe with the hope to find some sort of a lead,” said Gasa. It took Gasa two days to locate the car guard. “When we located him in Musgrave, we confronted him and he denied having stolen my things and said it was another guy who he described to have a burnt face,” said Gasa. Being a step closer to their lead, they continued with their search of finding the suspect whom they only had a description of with no name or location. Gasa said they went back to the place where his car was jacked to ask around about their suspect. “The guards confirmed that they know him and that he is a known culprit who deals with jacking cars and stealing from them,” explained Gasa. Promising a reward, Gasa gave the car guards his number to give him a call when they see the suspect around. As per his request, a few days later, he received a call about the suspect. “We were told where he was and when we got to him. He did not deny anything and he promised to give my things back. I took him to my place for further questioning and told him to call home to let them know where he was and what was going on,” said Gasa. When Gasa decided to go meet Ngubane’s family, he said that he recognised something that led to him wanting to assist the family. “Every time I visited in the evenings, I would notice that they have not eaten. I was touched by this and I knew something had to be done,” said Gasa. Ngubane told The Westville Weekly Gazette that what lured him to crime was the need to take responsibility of raising his brothers child after his passing. “When my brother died, he left his two-year-old son with nothing. I felt it was my responsibility to take care of the child and with no income in the household, I had to make means since
my brother also took care of us,” said Ngubane. He said that he learnt a few tricks from his brother who was also involved in crime which lead to his demise. Ngubane said he started stealing items from parked cars and pick-pocketing people. The 21-year old-said this also led him to drop out of school. “I dropped out of school last year because I was stealing in the Pinetown area and people started to know about me and came looking for me at my school. I decided to stop going to school because it tarnished the school’s image and I did not feel safe.” Ngubane said that when his parents found out about his criminal ways, they did not want anything to do with his money. He said that he feels grateful to have met Gasa because he changed his life even though he had wronged him. “When Siya found me, I thought it was over for me and I am going to jail. It never crossed my mind that he would take me out of my criminal ways and bring me to an honest living,” said Ngubane. Ngubane does administrative work in Gasa’s farm. He said that his dream is to become an actor and a businessman. He said that getting a job has brought back hope and he believes he is a step closer to his dream again. “The criminal life has taught me a lot and one of them being that, not all problems are permanent and patience is a virtue. I was in a hurry and that led me to crime and it almost destroyed my life,” Ngubane said.