South Africa’s illicit cigarette and alcohol underground market has been dealt a severe blow as thousands queued from the early hours of Tuesday morning outside liquor stores and tobacco shops, following the lifting of the ban when the country downgraded to lockdown level two, as of midnight 17 August. Hoteliers, restaurants and gym fanatics also joined in on the celebrations as ‘normal life’ resumed for them as well. In an address to the nation on 15 August, President Cyril Ramaphosa said that the decrease in the number of new infections and SA’s jump to an 80 percent Covid-19 recovery rate, gave a positive indication that the country was ready to move down to level two of the risk adjustment strategy. This opened up a number of sectors, under strict Covid guidelines, as well as the sale of booze in licenced restaurants, bars and taverns with the 10pm curfew remaining and restrictions in place. Ramaphosa said: “Restaurants, bars and taverns will be permitted to operate according to approved protocols as to times of operation and numbers of people. Alcohol will be permitted for on-site consumption in licensed establishments only up until 10pm. Liquor outlets will be allowed to sell alcohol for off-site consumption from Monday to Thursday during the hours of 9am to 5pm only,” he said. This brought joy to smokers following a five-months ban, which profited the black market sellers as they were selling a pack of cigarettes for up to R200, and liquor consumers after the sale of alcohol was halted “with immediate effect,” following Ramaphosa’s address in July. The decision was prompted by an increase of burden to hospitals, due to the rise in the number of people being admitted with alcohol related injuries, and the sharp rise in gender-based violence, murders and abuse cases being reported. Liquor store owner, Thabani Msomi, said that he was happy to be back in business once again and urged South African’s to not repeat their mistakes. “This shop is more than just a business to me, it is my livelihood and what puts bread on the table for my family so I’m urging people to drink responsibly and for us sellers to adhere to the guidelines given. So that we can keep our doors open,” he said. Level two also permits leisure inter-provincial travel and social family visits. Gatherings are still limited to a maximum number of 50 people. Ramaphosa urged residents to still remain on the side of caution, as the novel coronavirus is still around, despite the easing of restrictions. He said: “With this new phase of our response, we need to put in place the practices and forms of behaviour that we must continue to adopt for some time to come. This virus will remain with us for many months and I must applaud the many South Africans who have changed their way of life to meet that reality. Familiarity with each other should not allow us to forget these precautions.” Ramaphosa extended the national state of disaster until 15 September and international travelremains prohibited. To find out more about what else is permitted under Level 2 lockdown, visit www.tabloidmedia.co.za, where the list and the president’s speech is available.