The man who broke into a Blackburn home and raped a mother while her three-month-old baby was asleep on the bed in 2016, has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for the brutal rape and two years behind bars for house break-in. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo said the sentence was handed down in the Verulam Regional Court where Sabelo Nogoko, 27, was convicted of both crimes. “On 6 November 2016, at about 2am, the victim was asleep in her home in the Blackburn area with her three month old baby. She heard that someone was trying to open her room door. She woke up and sat on her bed. The intruder removed the hard plastic which the victim had as a roof of her house and gained entry. The intruder forced the victim to remove her clothing (night dress) and underwear. The intruder then undressed himself as well and forcefully raped the victim without a condom. After he raped her (victim), he opened the door and went away. The complainant opened a case of rape at Verulam police station and the intruder was subsequently arrested,” she said. Cpt Naidoo added: “The charges were then provisionally withdrawn on 1 December 2016 pending DNA results which were received on 25 October 2017 and matched that of the accused. At that time the accused was out on bail. A summons was issued for the accused which was then served on him. The accused failed to attend court and a warrant for his arrest was issued by the magistrate.” “By that time the accused had relocated to Eastern Cape. The investigating officers received information that the accused had been working at Gateway Mall and had left the job as well. He was reportedly returning to his place of employment to fetch his wages. On 13 June 2019, when the accused arrived at Gateway Mall, the investigating officer was there to arrest him,” said Cpt Naidoo. The investigating officer, Warrant officer VW Phewa, was praised by the Station Commander Brigadier Zondi for the sterling work that he did in securing a good conviction and sentence. “The time spent engaging informers in locating the accused and executing the warrant of arrest and summons paid off in the end when the accused was convicted,” Brig Zondi said.