The Subramoney family from Shallcross is still reeling in shock and has yet to fully accept the death of their father, Vasanthan Subramoney, who died in a devastating house fire on Friday, 21 August. Vasanthan, 79, is believed to have died as result of his injuries which he suffered when the fire engulfed the Mount Blanc home, leaving it an empty shell. Family spokesperson and daughter-in-law of the deceased, Alisha Subramoney, said that Vasanthan was a family orientated man who always made the effort to live his life to the fullest. She said: “My father-in-law was an extremely fun-loving and bubbly person. He was an outdoor person who loved sports and gardening. He will be sorely missed by us all. We are still coming to terms with his loss and learning to accept that he is no longer with us.” Vasanthan was married for 42-years to his wife, Lilly Subramoney, and leaves behind his three sons and three daughters-in-law as well as four grandchildren. The fire wreaked havoc through the family home leaving them destitute and counting the cost of the devastation. Neighbours who witnessed the blaze sympathised with the family. Sanjay Mohan, operations director of Pro-Secure Armed Response, said that they were the first responders on the scene and assisted in removing Vasanthan from the blaze. Minutes after he was extracted from his burning home, Vasanthan died as a result of severe smoke inhalation. Mohan said: “Our members rushed on scene to find a house engulfed in flames and assisted in rescuing an elderly male who was trapped inside the home. The man took his last breath outside his home before succumbing to the damages done by the smoke inhalation.” The fire ravaged through the home leaving very little to almost none of the family’s belongings. The fire department, Chatsworth SAPS officers and emergency healthcare services were on scene in an attempt to keep the community safe while dousing the flames. The rest of the occupants of the home were treated at the scene and thereafter transferred to hospital for additional medical attention. Captain Cheryl Pillay, communications officer at Chatsworth SAPS: “The fire department is in the process of establishing the cause of the fire. Other family members received medical treatment after inhaling smoke. SAPS Chatsworth is investigating an inquest docket.” The Subramoney family has appealed for assistance in rebuilding their lives. For more information or to donate, contact 076 403 1951.