Bheki Ntuli, the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, has vowed to take immediate and hard action against warring associations in a bid to stem any further unnecessary bloodshed within the volatile industry. Internal battles within the Lower South Coast and the Umzinto taxi associations remains a cause for concern with the department as they battle to keep more blood from being spilled, for money, power and revenge attacks. Ntuli, who recently presented his turn-around strategy on crime, said that out of the 246 taxi associations in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), very few remain without challenges. He said: “One of the key contributing factors to instability in the province is taxi violence. We have held a series of engagements with the provincial leadership of the taxi industry to address the spike in taxi related conflict and murders, including recent incidents which saw commuters being caught in the crossfire.”
Ntuli said to-date, 47 taxi violence cases have resulted in convictions, 15 cases did not result in guilty verdicts, 48 cases are currently on court rolls while more than 449 cases remain under investigations. “It therefore became clear that urgent action needs to be taken in order to prevent further bloodshed. I have also been directed by the Provincial Executive Council (PEC) to act decisively and drastically to ensure that innocent lives are protected, especially commuters who continue to bear the brunt of taxi violence. As such, we are now taking extraordinary measures to normalise and stabilise transport services in the area which is affected by violence, unrest, conflict or instability I hereby declare,” Ntuli said. Following his meeting with Police Minister Bheki Cele, the provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula and the PEC, Ntuli said that he intends to invoke the provisions of Section 91(2) (a) and/or (b) of the Act of the National Land Transport Act. This would see troubled taxi associations being pulled from highly contested and conflict related routes and possible temporary ban from operating. Ntuli said: “Further details whereof shall be published through an appropriate medium including a Government Gazette. This notice declares our intention to shut-down the operations in the area, should there be further incidents of violence and killings. On the other hand, we will also continue to engage the taxi industry and affected communities to explain our intentions in this regard.” Taxi violence within the Umzinto Taxi Association recently claimed the lives of chairperson Msya Vezi and former Umzinto SAPS member turned taxi boss, Rangasamy “Brian” Govender. They were gunned down on Nelson Mandela Street, Vezi died on scene and Govender en route to the hospital.