The management of Verulam Day and Frail Care Centre has dismissed the allegations that the facility is hiding positive Covid-19 cases. This comes after allegations recently emerged that two staff members and two frail elderly residents at the care home had be isolated, to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. The centre caters for the needs of about 70 old and frail citizens in the area. According to a source, who spoke to the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid under anonymity, the care home is hiding more cases. The source said that she was worried about her relative who is being cared for at the home. “I do not know what to do because she is in need of round the clock care and I cannot afford to move her right now. The problem is that the centre is not being forthcoming and seems to be hiding the extent of the problem,” the source said. She claimed that concerns were raised following reports of an elderly resident passing away due to Covid-related illnesses. An allegation which Fathima Khan, centre manager, denies. She said: “All the staff members and patients were tested for Covid-19 between April and May. No positive cases emerged.” The news of an outbreak at the care home was revealed by a national broadcaster at the end of July. A staff member at the centre, who also asked to remain anonymous, confirmed that testing was done but claimed that there seems to be a veil of secrecy from management. She said: “The management is hiding information from us about the number of people who have contracted the virus. This is unfair because we have a right to know about the infections at the centre.” Khan said that the resurgence of the rumours was a concern as it is causing undue panic. She dismissed the allegations being made on social media, saying that no staff members and patients tested positive for Covid-19. She admitted that one elderly patient had died last week, “but not from the pandemic.” “We are not hiding anything and there is no secrecy. We are not allowing patients to visit their families or visitors to enter the care home because we are doing our best to keep everyone at the centre free of Covid-19,” Khan said. She said that the centre management has been keeping the Health Department appraised about everything happening at the care home. At the time of going to print, the department had not sent a response to our enquiry.