A reported drunk driver caused mayhem on the roads in Verulam on Sunday night after he slammed into multiple vehicles causing a three month occupant in the car to be ejected when he crashed into a VW Polo on Tottenham Road in Ottawa, in his bid to flee. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) responded to the accident site after receiving reports of the collision and Rusa head, Prem Balram, said as Reaction Officers arrived on scene, the driver of the Toyota Corolla sped off and travelled contra flow down the R102 towards Ottawa. “According to the parents of the infant, they hired the Toyota Corolla to transport them from Inanda to Coniston in Verulam. While on their way, the driver collided into the rear of a Hyundai H1 on the corner of Inanda Road and the R102 in Verulam. Reaction Officers attempted to intercept the vehicle at the Ottawa intersection, however, the driver turned into Tottenham Road where he attempted to overtake three vehicles before colliding head on into the VW Polo,” Balram said. He added: “Reaction Officers found the child lying on the road next to the vehicle. Officers secured the child and requested paramedics on scene. On arrival, the child, her parents and aunt who was also in the vehicle were examined and found to have sustained moderate injuries. Two occupants of the VW Polo were also injured. They were stabilised on scene before being transported to hospital by ambulance. The driver of the Toyota Corolla was under the influence of alcohol and was placed under arrest by Reaction Officers. A large crowd gathered at the scene and threatened to assault him. Witnesses also reported that the Toyota Corolla knocked into several pedestrians while fleeing the initial collision.” “Reaction officers patrolled the route followed by the Toyota Corolla, however, no injured pedestrians were located. A Mazda 3 was found on an embankment. The driver explained that he veered off the road when he noticed the Toyota Corolla travelling towards him on the one way road. The intoxicated driver is currently in the custody of the Verulam SAPS,” Balram added. “We urge community members to refrain from travelling with drivers who are intoxicated behind the wheel, be it family, friend or a hired motorist. This is life threatening and almost cost a baby her life. The rules of the road are in place to protect the lives of all road users. Please adhere to the road rules for safer travelling for all,” Balram said.