Newcastle was abuzz with excitement as alert level 2 came into effect at midnight on 17 August. Level two allows gyms and beaches to be opened and for more sporting activities. The ban on the sale of tobacco was lifted and the ban on sale of alcohol is lifted subject to restrictions. As lockdown level 2 is welcomed across the country, health fanatics are excited to get their bodies in shape for spring whilst smokers and drinkers are busy stocking up. A weekly run, which is organised by Julian De Beer from Wise Link, is open to the public and is aimed at getting people to return to their fitness routines and get some fresh air. Participants meet at the Ferrum pool every Wednesday to enjoy a 4 km walk or run. As some sort of “normality” is beginning to return, De Beer encourages people to join and get fit. “It is open to the public and anyone can run. With spring making its way into the atmosphere, it’s time to change our mindsets and be a bit more positive. A healthy mind is a healthy body,” he said. Meanwhile, residents were seen happily puffing away on their cigarettes while carrying their cases of beer and other alcohol to their cars. Workers hastily unpacked truck loads of alcoholic beverages in anticipation of the traffic in and out of bottle stores. President Cyril Ramaphosa, writing in his weekly open letter to South Africa, said that the country “must urgently focus its efforts on recovery” , but warned that a move to a lower level is not a “free for all”. “It is a sign of the progress that we are making in reducing the new infection and demand on our health facilities. It is also a very important development as we strive to restart our economy. But it is too soon to celebrate,” said Ramaphosa. He said that the country was very much still in the middle of the pandemic. Most residents were overjoyed that they could now get cigarettes legally. “I’m not so concerned about the alcohol ban being lifted but rather happy that we can purchase cigarettes at an affordable price again,” said a resident who was on her way to get a carton. “It’s not like us smokers did not smoke at all, we were able to purchase smokes but the prices were absolutely ridiculous. Some of us enjoy smoking and do not want to give it up. It’s so easy for a non-smoker to urge us to just give it up , it would be like me saying to someone who reads books religiously to just stop reading,” said the resident. Samkhelisiwe Nene, another resident, said that she felt a bit free now. “I can smoke and enjoy a nice cool beer after a long day, especially now that summer is approaching. At the same time we, as a country need not overdo it with the alcohol. If you want to drink, then be responsible. Buy your items and enjoy it in the comfort of your own home. If you are in a bar, do not share your cigarettes or drinks. I think if we stick to these simple rules then things will not get out of hand like last time when alcohol was banned with immediate effect,” she said. Owners of liquor outlets were happy to be back in business. Thabo Gumede, a local tavern owner said that he was glad the ban was lifted. “This is my business and I am glad to be able to make a living again. It has been tough but I am optimistic that things will get better for our country and we will eventually say goodbye to Covid-19,” he said.