Two adults and a seven-month-old baby were tragically killed in a horror crash on the N2 near Nandi Drive on Sunday afternoon, leaving five other occupants of the vehicle injured. Inanda Cash and Carry owner, Mr AK Haffejee, 63, his wife, Farzana, 52, and their grandchild were identified as the deceased vehicle occupants. According to Life Response spokesperson, Leon Fourie, Life Response Emergency Care Practitioners reported that they arrived on the scene of the south bound carriageway, to find that a Toyota Hilux had veered off the roadway, smashing into a steel support structure of an overhead signboard. “Sadly there was nothing that could be done to help the infant and two adults and they were declared deceased on arrival of the paramedics. Five other occupants of the vehicle were found to have suffered injuries, with three of them in a critical condition. Advanced Life Support intervention was needed to stabilise them, before they were transported by ambulances, to various receiving medical facilities for further definitive care. At this stage the cause of the collision is unclear and will form the subject of a South African Police Services investigation,” said Fourie. According to reports, the Haffejee’s who reside in Parlock, were travelling in two vehicles when one vehicle allegedly experienced a mechanical fault and had to be towed. The occupants then travelled in one vehicle and it is alleged that one family member waited with the second vehicle for the tow-truck to arrive. The five injured included Haffejee’s daughter-in-law whose baby was killed in the accident, his daughter and grandchildren. The deceased were laid to rest on Monday. The community reacted with shock and horror at the chilling accident and shared their grief
on social media. “I was there and saw this happen right on the side of me as I looked in my rear view mirror. I saw the van hit the pole and go up in the air… What a horrific crash… This was so sad… Praying for the others to recover,” a Facebook comment read. (sic) “This is so sad, Mr AK was my landlord, such a graceful man, heartfelt condolences to his family,” another comment read. (sic) 