“Duma Says,” the first in an educational children’s book series written and illustrated by Durban-born Nathi Ngubane and produced by the experimental Social Bandit Media who are based between Jozi and New York, has just been published and has been well received in South Africa and internationally. Having fulfilled the Department of Health’s guidelines, the children’s book appears on the official coronavirus website which the Minister of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize shared on Twitter this week. The Centre for African Studies at Harvard University included Ngubane’s book on its online resources on Covid-19 while the New York City school’s library system added “Duma Says” to its collection of free resources on Covid-19 for children. This week, African Story Book added the book to their collection of resources – that go to tens of thousands of children across the continent. South African born Journalist Azad Essa, based in the US and the co-founder of The Daily Vox, who also has a small experimental media company called Social Bandit Media, said that he spoke to his buddy Ngubane and asked him to look at writing/illustrating a story that would be more relatable and more honest about reality. So after a month and half of research, sketches, writing etc — we had this book published: “Duma says: wash your hands, wear a mask!” Essa explained that the idea for “Duma Says” came when they found that much of the other material on Covid-19 that focused on kids, were telling a story about children living in middle class or elite environments and didn’t speak to the experience of millions of children in cramped housing or informal settlements – an issue that directly impacts the spread of the virus. The illustrations in “Duma Says” are beautiful and the storytelling is so important given how people in informal settlements are so often ignored or erased.  The vulnerable, especially those living in informal settlements are affected differently by the coronavirus pandemic as they have different challenges. “It is much more difficult to combat the spread of coronavirus and to social distance when you are living in cramped up housing. It is also much more difficult to keep your hands clean when there is no access to running water in your home,“ says Nathi Ngubane. The series is about the adventures of Duma, his sister Zihle and their friends, as they try to find their way during this pandemic. In Book 1, “Duma Says: wash your hands, wear a mask!”, the duo notice that many in the community are not wearing masks, so they hatch a plan to try and protect their community. This was meant to be a once off book but given the interest and demand, there will now be a three-part series, with the other two books likely to focus on “learning during Covid” and “playing with friends during Covid”. All of it will be designed for tablet and phone use and will be free. A small batch of paperbacks will be available at Ike’s Books with the proceeds going to Open Air School in Durban where Ngubane completed his matric and Essa’s mother taught for more than a decade.   ”Duma Says” has since been translated into isiZulu, while isiXhosa and iSwahili translations are on the way. A crowdfunder has been launched to pay the artist/illustrator, translators and design/typesetters who have so far been doing it for free but they need to get paid because the work has increased 10-fold. Click here to download this book as a PDF To contribute to the crowdfunder go to https://www.gofundme.com/f/duma-says-help-us-educate-kids-on-covid19 More information can be obtained from https://sacoronavirus.co.za/2020/07/16/duma-says-wash-your-hands-wear-a-mask/