As the families of the slain Mthwalume victims awaited the arrested suspects first court appearance today (Monday, 17 August), one of the two South Coast men suspected of killing five women in the locality was found hanged in the police holding cells this morning. The two arrests were welcomed on Friday following the spate of brutal murders where the bodies of the women were found dumped in a sugar cane field over the past five months with the most recent being two bodies discovered last week. It is alleged that the surviving suspect attempted to commit suicide on Saturday by swallowing crushed bottles but was rushed to hospital. Media reports indicate that a suicide note was found with the suspect apologising for his actions as well as providing other pertinent confidential information. The remaining suspect was scheduled to appear in the area Magistrate Court this morning. A call has been made for the surviving suspect to be watched closely as he is the only link for the victims’ families to get answers regarding the gruesome killings. This comes after Police Minister Bheki Cele on Saturday visited the crime scene in Mthwalume, South Coast, following the discovery of five bodies of women over the past few days. Cele, KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza and Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC, Bheki Ntuli, visited the Mthwalume area on Saturday, where they engaged with a group of women. The Minister said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) has taken over the investigation into the murders. Cele also met with police officers on Monday morning to reinforce the work of the police and get an update on the investigation. The Minister said before his death, the main suspect, told the police that more bodies are buried in the sugar cane fields. Cele said the investigation into the murder of the women will continue until authorities are satisfied that they have exhausted every avenue. “We’ve told the police that there are more bodies buried in the area and we have strengthened the team investigating the case. We’ve put more investigators, more skilled people, forensics and psychologists, to make sure that we leave no stone unturned,” Cele said.