A triple tragedy has sent shock waves through the community of Ezakheni, after three children, the youngest being 8-months-old, died in a house fire in the early hours of this morning, 30 July. The children were asleep in their beds when the house caught alight. Their 58-year-old grandmother and another family member who were in the house when the fire broke out, sustained severe burn wounds and were taken to hospital for further medical care. Speaking to the Ladysmith Herald, five hours after hearing the news, the tearful mother of four Zinhle Hlubi said: “I can’t understand why God has done this. I can’t tell you what happened, I was at hospital with one of my children who was sick when I got the call.” Hlubi wept terribly as she desperately held onto her phone, that had a picture of her children; 10-year-old Angel Mabaso, seven-year-old Xolisile Mabaso and eight-months-old Enzokuhle Mabaso. Hlubi explained that nothing in this world could have prepared her for what she had seen when she arrived at her home. “My children are gone, all three are gone,” wept the mother bitterly. Two rooms of Hlubi’s house were completely destroyed in the blaze. Police told the Ladysmith Herald, that at this stage they can not say if the children had died from smoke inhalation or were burnt to death. An inquest has been opened by the Ezakheni Police and at this stage no foul play is suspected. “It is suspected that the fire started from the heater that was found in the room where the deceased persons were discovered,” said the police official on the scene, but it is difficult to determine the cause of the fire until the investigation is complete. Mayor of Alfred Duma Municipality, Vincent Madlala was amongst those who had visited the family to pay his respects. “I’m deeply saddened by the three children who had lost their lives. We as a municipality will be assisting the family and giving our support during this difficult time,” said Madlala. The mayor said that further investigations will be done to determine the cause of the fire. “We are deeply hurt that children died like this. These children could not escape the fire because they had no means to rescue themselves. We call on parents and those who take care of children to put the lives of children above everything else to avoid such painful occurrences,” said KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC, Mrs Nonhlanhla Khoza MEC Khoza also wished the injured person, who has since been hospitalized, a speedy recovery. She called on law enforcement agencies to give priority to the case to ascertain what caused the fire. “If the incident is a result of human error, police need to ensure that people are held to account. Children remain the pillar of our nation’s future and it is a responsibility of all of us to protect them,” she added.