Fitness coach and Covid -19 survivor, Nazreen Ally shares her journey battling the invisible, deadly coronavirus. Ally said that people need to know that the virus is serious and should also keep in mind that it is everywhere and anyone can get it. The 41-year-old spoke to the Springfield Weekly Gazette on her 13th day of isolation, on Tuesday, 11 August. “From the day I was rushed to hospital, I was put on a drip for a day, on a course of antibiotics, Vitamin C and Zinc and selenium. Once I was stabilised I was sent home to self-Isolate,” said Ally. She said that the first symptoms she noticed were body pains and tiredness. “The body pains were worse than labour pains. From the meds, I started eating healthy foods and what also helped was hope. Having this virus puts you between life and death, it is like staring at death in the face and you beg God to take you but then, you realise what this virus is about,” said Ally. Ally said that people were telling her not to go to hospital because she will die there. “I went to Ahmed Al Kadi and the treatment I received was compassionate and respectful. I couldn’t eat, breathe and had fever. I couldn’t sit or lie down as the pain crippled me and at some moments I thought that very breath I took was my last one,” she said. Ally feels that the virus cannot be compared to anything, however, the one thing she knows is that its starts with excruciating pain that cripples you, even tablets do not help. “The fever doesn’t go away, it is so stubborn, you feel hot, you feel cold then you feel like you about to die. When that goes away, you can’t breathe, have chest pains and you cough until your lungs are seized, you almost smell death. I never thought I would feel strong again,” said Ally. She said that the virus works very quickly and people should start caring and stop victimising people who have tested positive. “It is the people around you who give you hope. I had two special people taking care of me and it was their caring that gave me hope to live. I cannot stress it enough but people need to take it seriously, stop going around. Some people are walking around with the flu and are in denial that they may have it. People need to stay home, isolate to help others as well from contracting it. This virus is deadly,” Ally said. She said that self isolation is not fun at all, but it is safe and it is for one’s own good. “When I look outside my window, I see that the beaches are full, nobody is taking it seriously. I just think and wish that these people would know what it feels like so that they could stay at home and stop the spread. No matter what colour you are, how wealthy you maybe or your status, all means nothing with this virus. We need to protect each other,” said Ally. Many see Ally as fit and question how she contracted the virus. She said that it certainly has nothing to do with how fit you are. “It doesn’t matter how often you exercise, anyone that comes in contact with you can be infected. The sad part is that it is fatal. She encourages everyone to stay at home, sanitise all the time. With regard to temperature, Ally said: “Temperature screening doesn’t work, It does not tell you who has the virus or not, at times your temperature drops, however, you still have the virus. Also, with the government telling people to self-isolate for 10 days. “That is not enough and can’t be guaranteed. A 15 day self-isolation is needed at the least.” She wished all those who have tested positive a speedy recovery. “My advice is forcefully eat, drink hot soups, hot ginger, water, have Vitamin C, Selenium and zinc, eat your fruits, rest, take regular showers, sanitise and wash your linen every day to keep clean. Lastly, pray a lot,”Ally said.