Parts of the Ladysmith Klipriver is running dry with fears that the area will be left without water as drought continues to plague the area. Without any rain in the catchment areas water levels of the river is dropping daily. This means that once again the greater Ladysmith area will be hit by strict water restrictions. Spokesperson for the uThukela municipality, Jabulani Mkhonza, said that it is already only possible to pump water with one pump from the abstraction point for only a few hours a day. “The uThukela District Municipality, as the authority, will therefore be running short of water. It will not be possible to pump 24-hours a day to the residential and industrial areas of Ladysmith,” said Mkhonza. He said that the municipality was “now compelled” to reintroduce strict water restrictions with immediate effect to manage water supply. Water restrictions have already been implemented from 17 August. Pumps at the Golf Course Reservoir stop at 8pm to Observation Hill and surrounding areas to allow the build up of water stock levels, said Mkhonza. We will restart the pumps again at 5am daily in order to supply water for both businesses and residential areas. This schedule will be followed up until we receive sufficient rainfall in the catchment area of the Klip River,” he said. The source supplies the Ladysmith bulk water works with 40 percent of the daily production. “Without it we will be running short of 40 percent per hour per day. The areas that will be affected by water shortage and restrictions are Ladysmith town and suburbs which include Steadville, Danskraal, Model Kloof, Umkhamba Gardens, Observation Hill, Acaciavale and Roosboom,” said Mkhonza. “The municipality urges consumers to reduce their water demand so as to sustain a continuous water supply during this drought period. They are further requested to fix water leaks at their premises and report water leaks occurring outside their premises at our call centre number 0860-104-257. Any person who contravenes water restrictions will be liable to a fine of R2 000 in terms of Section 57 of the water services by-laws of the uThukela municipality.” Car washes, filling up of swimming pools, using the sprinkler systems and the watering of gardens will be restricted until further notice. Car wash businesses will be permitted to operate four days a week, that is Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays only. “Any car wash business to be found operating on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays will be fined.The public should bear with us as we try our utmost best to manage the situation,” added Mkhonza.