A revenge attack ended in murder on Clearhaven Drive in Foresthaven, Phoenix on Sunday, when 23 year-old Dimitri Johnson was stabbed multiple times in cold blood by a 19-year-old suspect. The suspect was arrested shortly after the killing. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo said that it is alleged that the victim had taken a walk to the tuck-shop near his home and on his way back, he stopped and spoke to a man who was seated in his motor vehicle on the road. “While the two men were in conversation, the suspect allegedly ran out of a pathway, went straight to the victim and without saying a word, began stabbing the victim. The suspect then fled in one direction and the victim ran straight home while holding his neck,” Naidoo said. She said that as the victim arrived home, he fell at the doorway. “The victim’s father on seeing him then contacted the ambulance. The paramedics promptly attended to the victim but due to his injuries, he died at the doorway. The deceased sustained a stab wound to the left side of his neck, chest and some lacerations on his left arm,” said Naidoo. Members of SAPS Phoenix responded to the complaint and a search ensued for the suspect
who went into hiding. “Members of the Rapid Response team managed to find the 19-year-old suspect who was detained at SAPS Phoenix. A blood stained jacket was recovered from the suspect by the Rapid Response team and the knife that was allegedly used in the murder was recovered by D/Sgt Harrinath of the Crime office,” said Naidoo. She added that the suspect will be charged and will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. “The motive for the killing was vengeance. The members of the Rapid Response team were praised for their swift action in arresting the suspect. A murder case is under investigation,” Naidoo added. KZN VIP Medics rushed to the scene. Spokesperson Gareth Naidoo, said: “The victim sustained life-threatening wounds and due to the loss of blood, there was nothing that could be done for him. He passed away outside his house.” Johnson was a bank employee. A family member, who wished to remain anonymous told The Phoenix Tabloid that the deceased was a respectful and humble young man. “He moved down from Johannesburg. He was loved by his church members. The full impact of his death has not hit us as yet. We cannot believe this is true. The family is devastated. It is hard to believe that he is gone,” the family member said. Phoenix Community Police Forum (CPF) chairman, Umesh Singh said: “This kind of callous behaviour is intolerable in society. It is distressing that there appeared to be no regard for human life. Such violence is unacceptable and we commend police on the swift arrest of the suspect. We place our faith in the courts that justice will prevail. We extend our condolences to the grieving family on the loss of their loved one.” Johnson is mourned by his parents, two sisters and brother together with family and friends.