The Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader Patrick Pillay has called on the city manager to investigate flaws in utility accounts which have caused major distress for residents. Pillay said that as of recent, the municipality billing flaws have led to many residents not being charged for electricity or water costs, which then leads to exorbitant charges, creating a huge ‘hole’ in the pockets of ratepayers when council eventually picks up the anomaly. “I have called on the city manager to investigate these flaws and discipline officials who are not doing their jobs. Ratepayers need to also know that the municipality is not writing off any arrears in the accounts of ratepayers because of the lockdown as mentioned by some misleading politicians. The municipality resolutions are clearly explicit that no interest will be charged on these affected accounts once an agreement to pay the arrears is made by the account holder,” said Pillay. Clayfield resident, Ronnie Govender is one of many who had encountered this problem. He contacted the DLC offices after his utility account did not have electricity charges debited for over five months. An angry Govender said that when he noticed his account was not debited in March, he approached the municipality and was told not to worry. “I did not accept this response and felt that the officials didn’t understand the financial magnitude of this matter and contacted the DLC leader, Patrick Pillay for assistance. I was very happy that I approached them as they understood my concern and plight. I am more comfortable now that the DLC is making strong representations to the city to have my electricity charges debited accordingly, however Pillay advised me to pay extra towards my account to alleviate the huge costs that will be incurred when the city debits my electricity for five months,” said Govender. Pillay further stated that ratepayers must analyse their accounts to ensure that all costs are reflected in their accounts. “These costs are rates, water and sanitation, sewage costs, residential electricity and DSW charges,”he added.