Listen to Jerusalema below “I can dance, so I said let me do it for my women. I viewed the video footages and being women’s month, we just got to the park and danced our way out of our boredom.’’ Aviation school owner and pilot Fathima Khan was grounded by the coronavirus outbreak for weeks on end – including a nightmarish 21-day quarantine after she contracted Covid-19 from a visiting relative – until the homegrown hit song and dance moves – the globally-popular Jerusalema jive – injected new life into her and got her and friends into the stride in Durban at the weekend. As they say in the social media revolutionary world: this local dance demonstration debut also went viral and got tongues wagging of how the locked up women grasped some fresh and new freedom. The inner-city Jameson Park was the setting and stage as this intrepid group – commonly tied to a WhatsApp chat group of 200 business-minded women participants – put their best foot forward and danced the Covid-19 blues away in the springtime breeze on Saturday afternoon. Among the high-flying dancers was Khan’s daughter, Tasneem, also laid down in quarantine for seven days by the Covid-19 virus, and 50 businesswomen and professionals warmed up briskly and got into the act of DJ Master KG and Nomcebo’s blockbuster hit has taken SA and the world by storm. This new, multiracial business brigade refused to back down from the awestruck multitudes of rising stars that were showcasing their deft dance moves on beaches and parking lots. By chat consensus, they took up the Jerusalema Dance Challenge, stripped off their aprons, put on their gym wear and dancing shoes and brought the busy park to a standstill with their new-found dancing skills and baptism of fire. Social media users say the Jerusalema Dance Challenge has brought positive energy to millions of ordinary men, women and children around the world – many still fretting over the socio-economic impact of Covid-19. And it was no walk in the park for our free-spirited group as they jived and giggled to the catchy craze and rhythmic African beat and dance routine – longer than a week after President Cyril Ramaphosa eased government’s brakes on the curfew and restrictions. Khan’s daughter, Tasneem, an Afrikaans teacher at Wembley Primary School in Phoenix, who was also stricken by the virus, teamed up with Westville North’s Nqobile Masombuka as the de facto dance instructors who quickly got the troupe into the line-dancing rhythm of the global anthem. Since the home-made viral sensation hit the charts, becoming an instant social media craze, Jerusalema has side-stepped SA’s nation-building and social cohesion war dance and knocked the politicos off their feet from the dance floor with this global anthem.
The 45-minute dance in the park was a showstopper for hordes of visitors, if not a crowd-pleaser for passers-by and onlookers as well. Fawzia Peer, former Durban-Ethekwini Municipality deputy mayor, got the colourful choregraphy going with Nqobile Masombuka in a bid to get the women out of their kitchens: “Our WhatsApp group became the key channel of communication. We were up for the challenge and voted to get out of our homes and get down dancing to this popular song and dance.’’ Since the shutdown of gyms and other recreational facilities, these women were home-based and cooking up a storm for their families during the 150 days of the coronavirus pandemic scourge. “Just getting out of our kitchens was a breath of fresh air and joining this craze had simply revitalized our bodies and rejuvenated our spirits. Many of us who were cooking, eating and getting fat and putting on the kilos around our waistlines,’’ said the cheerleaders.
The women also battled the Covid-19 challenges – shock death notices, loss of business and income streams, and some like Fathima, her daughter and husband, Ashraf Gaibie of Umhlanga, were infected with the deadly disease as the virus spread through the family.
“It was really amazing to get out of the lockdown and dance around the park while building up a sweat. We were free-spirited and full of fun.’’ Khan said, while Tasneem described it as a ‘’great chilled session’’. Women’s empowerment champion, Vani Moodley spent the days tutoring women in small business online, except for preparing meals and baking bread for her cricketing son, Senuran Muthusamy, 26, who finally got out of their Glenwood home to join the Dolphins and Proteas on a culture week at the Kruger National Park that attracted 10 000 visitors on day one of its opening to tourists: “I used the lockdown to encourage women to come up with bright business ideas and how to make money.’’ On the Jerusalema Dance Challenge, she beamed: “It was absolutely refreshing to get out and enjoy the air of freedom. I just loved and enjoyed the camaraderie and positive energy of our members.’’ Masombuka wrapped it up: “It was a life changing and a fun-filled experience that augurs well for our future business ventures in these trying times. I can dance, so I said let me do it for my women. I viewed the video footages and being women’s month, we just got to the park and danced our way out of our boredom.’’ From the beaches of Cape Verde to town squares in Canada, they are still jigging and jiving and posting videos of themselves and others getting into the groove of the magical moments via Facebook, Twitter and TikTok. “The world is dancing together during the coronavirus pandemic,’’ scribbled a user from Jamaican, a compound in Tanzania. Other users have commented that the song-dance craze has transcended beyond boundaries: “The world has been dancing to its vibrant rhythm. It is so vibrant that it has inspired a dance challenge that has taken social media by storm.’’ • Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist and member of the Southern African Freelancers’Assocation (SAPREA), South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) and Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International).