A 32-year-old man was stabbed to death while another was taken to hospital during an alleged argument over a bottle of alcohol at Lungelani Informal Settlement in La Mercy, Tongaat. Captain Patrick Ngwane, Tongaat SAPS spokesperson, said that a 23-year-old man was nabbed and charged for murder and attempted murder following the 22 August incident. Ngwane said that the deceased succumbed to his injuries on the scene. “Our members, Warrant Officer M Cele and Sergeant S Dlamini received a complaint of a stabbing from the area of the incident. Upon arrival on scene, the police found a 32-year-old male with two stab wounds on his chest,” he said. Ngwane said that the members made enquiries on the scene and it was established that the deceased was stabbed by a known male. “During an investigation, police officers noticed that another 36-year-old man was also stabbed on the chest by the same suspect. An investigation revealed that the two victims were stabbed due to an argument over a bottle of alcohol. Paramedics arrived on scene and declared a 32-year-old victim deceased and the second injured victim was taken to hospital to receive treatment,” Ngwane added. Witnesses at the scene informed police that the suspect had fled the scene on foot and the description of the suspect was given. “Police went into a sugarcane field to search for the suspect. While searching, they found the suspect hiding inside the sugarcane field not far from the scene of the crime. He was then arrested and found in possession of the knife which is believed to be the murder weapon,” Ngwane said. He explained that the suspect was taken to hospital under police guard and is expected to appear before the Verulam Magistrate’s Court soon. “The investigation on murder and attempted murder cases is underway. The deceased body was taken to the Phoenix government mortuary for a post-moterm to be conducted,” he said. Colonel Santha Moodley, Tongaat police station commander, applauded the members for their swift response which led to the arrest of the suspect. “This arrest will send a strong message to the perpetrators of crime. Crime does not pay off and that the full weight of the law shall come down hard on perpetrators of such senseless acts. We are appealing to our community to refrain from liquor abuse. Drinking alcohol may make you behave differently or become violent and you may do things that you would never do when you are sober,” she warned. To report criminal activities and liquor related offences, call SAPS Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or the emergency line 10111, or call Tongaat SAPS on 032 944 9900.