Ward 31 Councillor Charmaine Clayton recently visited the George Hill Park, on Randles Road near the George Hill Informal Settlement. Upon her visit, she discovered that the grass is overgrown, there is rubbish everywhere and the pond has not been cleaned for some time. She said that eThekweni service delivery is really shocking. “I am not getting too much joy holding on the phone to report a fault or to get to a reference number, it has been an absolute nightmare. Nobody answers,” said Clayton. She said that she understands the community’s frustrations, “If the park is in this state where are children supposed to play. Even with lockdown, children still want to get some fresh air and play,” she said. Clayton said that she also discovered that the rubbish dumped illegally in the park consists of files, postage packaging, rubble from renovations and from the motoring business. “This indicates that some local businesses are not managing their refuse properly,” said Clayton. The park is directly opposite to a hospital. According to Clayton, this is also a big concern. “This is a health a hazard. Rats are breeding here, is the hospital not affected by this?” she questioned. She said that she was planning to engage with other concerned residents to do a clean up to bring back the dignity of the park that people once enjoyed. “As part of my clean-up plans, I have made numerous calls to the Durban Solid Waste to request a donation of gloves and black bin bags, however, I have received no response from them. What is also troubling me is that as the councillor, I have to face angry residents. I am basically a go to between negotiators,” said Clayton. Speaking to residents, the Springfield Weekly Gazette learned that it has been over two months since the grass was last cut. One of the residents said that the pond has now become a hive to mosquitoes. They say that George Hill Park was also used as a site for preparing food to feed the vulnerable, especially at this desperate time of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The state is unfavourable for any activity,” said one of the residents. Clayton said that it works better to have someone or the community adopt the park as it would ensure that illegal dumping in the park is avoided. “Maybe if someone took over the responsibility of taking care of the park, it would be in a better state,” said Clayton. She said that when seeking answers from the municipality, the only response she gets is that they are short staffed. She urged the community of Sydenham to be patient as she will continue attempting to get the municipality to deliver. Comment from eThekwini Municipality was still forthcoming at the time of going to print.