With Gender-Based Violence (GBV) in the spotlight this month, Shotokan Karate-Do International South Africa (KISA) and international medal winners Cloe and Zia Pillay are encouraging women and children to normalise attending self-defence classes to learn to defend themselves. The duo who trains at the Northlands Bowling Club said that women need to take an initiative and normalise attending self-defence classes to protect themselves if ever they feel victimised. “As women, it is very important to be able to educate yourself on how to defend yourself but most importantly, to stick together at all times,” said the duo. 17-year-old Cloe Pillay who qualified for the Youth International Championships held in Chile last year said that since she started training at the age of four, karate has helped her to be more comfortable not only as an athlete but also in her academics. “With the experience that I hold, I feel more comfortable with my abilities to fight back if ever I find myself in a dangerous situation. I have the tools to defend myself and I think that as women in South Africa, it is very important in our day. I do not have fear of what I am doing,” said Cloe. Zia,13, who holds a gold medal said that for the past two years since she started her karate career, she has been able to enhance her defence skills and has learned so much in karate. “I have been winning and achieving some good results. Not only did I join KISA to keep healthy and fit, but I have also found ways to defend myself in dangerous situations. The experience also opened doors for me. At just the age of 13, I have been to Croatia, Botswana and to the Common World Games where I received a gold medal in the finals.” Zia added that women need to be aware of their surroundings at all times because one can never know what could happen these days where young girls are taken advantage of. “With the little knowledge that you have of how to defend yourself, it gives you the confidence to stand up and defend yourself,” she said. KISA head coach Brando Pillay said that he was very proud of the girl’s achievements and the prospects that they have acquired so far. “The girls are really showing good results and particularly, that they are coming from a good system and going places. They are very excited about having the opportunity to compete and represent a country and wear the Protea badge on their uniform. “As a coach, I couldn’t be more proud of the two athletes and what they have achieved.”
“Women have to empower themselves and take part in the self defence classes. We need to see more punches and kicks coming from them, this is what I always tell my students, to ‘stand their ground,’ ” he added.