Whether your divorce is a contested or an uncontested divorce all financial information of the spouses need to be disclosed. It is impossible to come to a fair division of assets or to determine the accrual in a divorce estate without such disclosure. No attorney can advise a client properly if all assets and liabilities have not been disclosed. This would entail a comprehensive discovery of relevant documentation, which includes documentation in respect of the nature and extent of assets which form part of both parties estates, as well as liabilities. Documentation that needs to be disclosed: 1. Proof of earnings
It is apparent that any documentation regarding proof of earnings would be relevant where there are claims for maintenance. Where a party is self-employed, any adequate proof of such a party’s income must be disclosed. For instance, financial statements in respect of a private company with limited liability or a close corporation would have to be disclosed if the party conducts business through such an entity.
Returns of income rendered to the South African Revenue Service, proof of earnings supplied to financial institutions in order to obtain credit, and statements of assets and liabilities supplied to financial institutions in order to obtain credit would also be of relevance. 2. Bank statements
All bank statements in respect of any financial institution where a party conducts a banking account must be disclosed. This would enable the other party to verify the inflow of funds into such an account, and the modus of utilising the funds by the account holder. If a party conducts an account under an alias or through a nominee, such account would still be under the control of the party and would therefore have to be disclosed. Accounts in respect of credit cards are highly relevant in that same might reflect on the spending capacity of a party, or would expose “hidden income” paid into such accounts. 3. Financial statements
A self-employed person is obliged to render yearly financial statements to the SARS, and same will be relevant to determine such a person’s financial means and obligations, as well as the nature and extent of his assets and liabilities in the light of the fact that the SARS requires a statement of assets and liabilities as well. It may be necessary to discover financial statements for the duration of a marriage, to prove the extent of the accrual of a party’s estate or to illustrate the nature and extent of the increase of a party’s estate as a result of direct. 4. Share portfolio and pension interests
The right, title or interest which a party may have in an insurance policy forms part of the party’s “financial means”. The surrender value of policies as on date of divorce are included in determining the net value of a party’s estate as on date of divorce. The relevant financial documentation in this regard, which would normally be in the form of a document emanating from the insurance company indicating the particulars regarding the policy and the surrender value of the policy, should be disclosed. In terms of the Divorce Act 70 of 1979, the pension interest of a party shall be deemed to be part of his assets in determining the patrimonial benefits to which a party in a divorce action may be entitled. 5. Liabilities
In determining the value of a party’s estate it is necessary to determine the value of assets and liabilities, to arrive at a net value. It is therefore necessary to disclose all documentation regarding liabilities and this would be in the form of bank statements in respect of an overdraft account, bond statements in respect of bonds registered over immovable property, statements of account in respect of credit agreements, clothing accounts and any other relevant documentation which may disclose the existence and quantum of liabilities. 6. Further and better discovery
If a party fails to disclose all relevant documentation in a contested divorce, the other party is entitled to apply the provisions of rule 35(3) of the Uniform Rules of Court if such a party believes there are, in addition to documents or tape recordings disclosed in the discovery affidavit, other documents (including copies) or tape recordings which may be relevant to any matter in question in the possession of any party thereto.
Rule 35(3) is a mighty weapon in a divorce action to obtain more information regarding the financial means and obligations of the other party. Should you require assistance in regards to the above, kindly contact our office to set up an appointment in which the relevant steps required in relation thereto will be discussed in detail. Disclaimer: This article is correct as at the time of going to press, however, it is no substitute for a consultation with an attorney. TEL: 031 402 0356 EMAIL: luckylaw@rocketmail.com / conveyancing.luckylaw@gmail.com or litigation.luckylaw@gmail.com