A notorious gang of criminals, allegedly wanted in a number of crimes committed in Durban and surrounding areas, were apprehended by Syndicate Protection Services on Friday, in Phoenix.  According to the Chief Executive Officer, Jerome Chetty, members of the gang have been wanted by police in cases ranging from robberies, shootings and possible kidnappings. The suspects allegedly robbed and shot a Syndicate Protection Services officer two weeks ago.  In the incident, the suspect approached the off-duty officer when he was on his way home. Phoenix SAPS communication officer, Captain Louise Naidoo confirmed the incident, stating that a case of attempted murder is being investigated. “The 23 year old complainant, Siphelele Ngcobo was on his way home on the R102 near Mount Moriah when he noticed three African males approaching in his direction.  They allegedly aggressively demanded his belongings, cellphone and money. One of them took his wallet. The complainant alleges that he was able to fight them off and run away.  As he was running, he felt a bullet penetrate his body in his back but he continued running until he reached his work place in Mount Edgecombe. He was taken to a local clinic and later transferred to a local hospital. The complainant sustained two bullet wounds. One where the bullet entered his body and the other where the bullet exited his body,”  said Captain Naidoo. Once recovered, Ngcobo returned to work.  “While on duty on Friday, he spotted one of the suspects and radioed in the information to our main control. Officers from Syndicate’s Reaction Division immediately set an operation into motion. They carefully surrounded the suspect before apprehending him.  When the suspect was questioned, he informed officers that other members of his gang were nearby. These suspects were also picked up and positively identified”, said Chetty. Police were called in and the suspects were taken into custody.   A police source has confirmed that the suspects are wanted for numerous other cases including kidnapping and other shootings around the Mount Moriah and Cornubia area. “It is believed that the suspect and his accomplices are responsible for a number of attacks at the traffic lights at Mount Moriah.  If any members of the public have fallen victim of similar crimes in Mount Moriah, Corunubia and surrounding areas, in the last few months, they need to contact the Phoenix SAPS urgently.  We want to build a strong case against these criminals so justice can be achieved,” said Chetty