The walls of Winklespruit River had to be breached to save whatever was left of the marine life following a raw sewage leak that killed hundreds of fish.
In a video shared on social media, crabs and fish can be seen trying to swim away from the contaminated water but to no avail. The video was brought to the attention of ward 97 Councillor Andre Beegte, who rallied the troops and the relevant authorities into action. Beegte said that the waste water fallout into Winklespruit River was caused by failed electric pumps at Elcock Road pump station, which led to the raw sewage leak from the manholes in the beach parking area.
Further investigations, however revealed that the pump station south of Subway in Warner Beach was the actual cause of the leak, due to a fault within the electrical system. He said that contractors were found on site busy with repairs and replacements. However, days later the sewage was still leaking into Winklespruit River and officials had to be called in order to breach the river. “Based on past experience, we requested that the estuary be aerated in a desperate effort to introduce at least some oxygen, in turn reducing fish fatalities, we were assured that the matter was already in hand as part of routine procedure,” Beegte said.
As the days went on, Beegte said that they were hit by non responses and delays from the relevant authorities, which compounded the situation. Urgent intervention was needed as the fish were suffocating. “We obtained authorisation from the water department for the use of non metered water from an adjacent fire hydrant and confirmed the availability of the Amanzimtoti fire department who assisted to disperse fresh water from the hydrant, and their vehicles hold, into the estuary, as such introducing much needed oxygen. A lot of time, effort and resources in an effort to rectify a situation that could so easily have been avoided, had officials from waste water acted more responsive when originally reported,” Beegte said. The sewage leak was initially reported on 27 July, followed up on 28, 29, 30, and 31 July. “Imagine thus our surprise on arriving at site on Friday, 31 July, to find no pump, five officials sharing one rake, no gumboots or other PPE to enter the water and effectively no plan to address the consequences of the outfall, we again communicated our concerns and recommendations in writing being that telephones remained unanswered,” Beegte said. He further said: “Come Saturday morning, 1 August it became clear that save the five officials with the one rake, the waste water department was not giving the situation much attention, despite further suffocations and telltale bubbles within the estuary. A decision was reached that the situation justified emergency decision and under guidance of officials, a channel was dug to the ocean thus allowing contaminant to drain and seawater to enter.” With the assistance of acting beach manager, Jace Govender, Mark Barber and Anesh Jugdeo, a TLB was borrowed from cemeteries to breach the estuary. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, confirmed the sewage spill and that samples of the Winklespruit River have been taken for testing while they monitor the situation. He said: “The teams investigated the incident and found that the dissolved oxygen in the water was depressed, causing the fish to die. This was attributed to a blocked sewer that was spilling into water. This has since been unblocked. Samples were taken to the lab for analysis, and monitoring of the Winkelspruit will continue until we see an improvement.”