President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Woman’s Day, 9 August where he highlighted the two pandemics South Africa is “gripped by” – the coronavirus pandemic and the scourge of gender-based violence and femicide. He said that more women and children are being abused and losing their lives at the hands of men. Ramaphosa paid tribute to the inheritors of the legacy of the women of 1956. He said: “Sixty-four years ago, our mothers, daughters, sisters and grandmothers stood defiant and proud, united in their demand to live in freedom. They stood not for themselves alone, but for the rights of the generations of women yet to come. “ Ramaphosa said that this day provides us with an opportunity to reflect on the road we have travelled since then. “We have made gains in advancing women’s rights.
We know that the reality for millions of South African women is very different to the promise contained in our Constitution. Millions of South African women still live in poverty and unemployment. They face discrimination and violence, “ said Ramaphosa He explained that South Africa has joined Generation Equality, a global campaign to achieve gender equality by 2030. As part of this campaign, we are part of two Action Coalitions, one on economic justice and rights and another on gender-based violence and femicide. Ramaphosa said that the nation cannot ignore the “deafening cries” of women and children for protection and for justice and that “concrete actions” have been taken to provide support to gender-based violence survivors, such as the increase in shelters and care centres and the increase in the capacity of police to deal with gender-based violence crimes. He explained that we now also have a National Strategic Plan, which aims to promote women’s economic inclusion.  One of the most important ways to reduce the vulnerability of women to gender-based violence is to enable them to become financially independent. “With the launch of Generation Equality and the National Strategic Plan we have a unique opportunity to refashion our society and the lives of the women of South Africa. We have an opportunity to build a country in which women’s right to dignity, security, safety and protection is non-negotiable. It requires bold and measurable actions for change. Today we commit to a new social compact with the women of this country informed by our collective commitment to gender equality, driven by bold actions.” Action 1: To expand the access of women to economic opportunity – By setting aside 40 percent of public procurement for women-owned businesses. Action2: To support women with small or micro businesses, including in the informal sector. To engage the financial sector to strengthen efforts to make financial services accessible and affordable for women in South Africa. Action3: To speed up the process of giving women access to productive assets such as land. By ensuring the land reform process favour historically disadvantaged people, including women. Of the R75 million in Covid-19 relief earmarked for farming input vouchers, 53 percent of the beneficiaries will be rural women. Women subsistence and small-scale farmers will continue to receive support beyond the lockdown. Action4: To ensure that women are safe from gender-based violence in the workplace. Through Generation Equality – towards the ratification of the ILO Convention on Violence and Harassment in the Workplace. The Solidarity Fund has approved a R17 million project to expand sheltering services and support the network of Thuthuzela Care Centres and to capacitate the GBV Command Centre. Mechanisms have been put in place to help women-owned businesses. In the second round of food relief the Fund will distribute this month vouchers – 40 to 50 percent of the beneficiaries will be women. Covid-19 relief is also being provided to women-owned SMMEs. The Industrial Development Corporation has also directed funding to supporting youth and women-empowered businesses. In the procurement of PPE, Black-owned and women-owned businesses has been prioritized. “We are deeply concerned about the corruption that has marred our national effort to make PPEs accessible to our hardworking health workers. We expect law enforcement to find the culprits and ensure they face the full might of the law, “said Ramaphosa He said that this pandemic has demonstrated our ability to support the greater economic participation of women and this good work must not end when the pandemic is over. “Under Generation Equality, we want to see women’s full empowerment achieved by this generation, within a generation. This is our responsibility as a nation. The time for talk is over. The time for action is now, “concluded Ramaphosa.