The Verge Competition aims to make eThekwini a more caring and liveable city by stimulating civic pride. The competition is open to all businesses, schools, individuals, garden clubs, conservancies, industrial companies and residents. Vahed adopted the municipal land opposite his home at the corner of Poppy Place and Roslyn Avenue in 2017 when he was still in school. Ever since then, he and his assistant Xolisani Gwegwedu have been maintaining the verge, which was used as an illegal dumpsite. ” I came in the top 20 last year and it is amazing. I was inspired by the beautiful gardens of Durban North which I walked passed on a daily basis when I was going to school. The people there take good care of their community and I wanted to do the same for mine,” said Vahed. He said that before starting the garden, he did his research on what was required of him before engaging with the municipality to request to adopt the spot. After doing his research, Vahed had to choose the most suitable plants which would grow on that plot of land. “I chose local indigenous plants like; Vygies, Oesteospermums, Dimorphoteca Jucunda, Polygala, deities, Geraniums, aloe aborencea, aloe malothi, Spekboom, bulbines, Euphorbia, Felicia ammeloidies and a couple others. All the money had to come from my savings which was a bit hard, but I felt that there was no other way I could make a difference in my community,” Vahed said. Like any other projects, there are challenges and for Vahed, illegal dumpers and those who just thought they could steal plants to go sell on the side of the streets. “I always had to be on the look out to ensure that nobody does anything in my garden. Vahed said that now that he is in college, he is relying on Gwegwedu to continue the work, while he concentrates on his studies. He is studying landscaping and design at Pretoria College. Gwegwedu is maintaining the garden on a weekly basis. He said that it would really bring him joy to see more residents in his area and Durban as a whole taking care of the verges next to their homes. “It would make a huge difference and would beautify our communities. If it was not for my assistant, my mother, Zohra Vahed, my ward councillor Hassan Hannif, Nana Ndlovu of eThekwini Municipality Parks Department, my neighbours and my late mentor, Yusuf Nkwanyana, I would not have achieved any of this,” he said. Gwegwedu said that he started working in the garden three years ago and it has helped him a lot financially. Originally form the Eastern Cape, Gwedwedu said that with this job, he can now put food on table. “I am really happy that our garden made the top ten in the competition. Vahed and I will continue to make it look more beautiful for the community to appreciate,” said Gwegwedu. Vahed’s grandmother famously known as Nana said that she is very happy to see that his grandson’s efforts are noticed by the community and the municipality. She said that he is very passionate about the garden and with the assistance of Gwegwedu, they have been working very hard. “Vahed went the extra mile in making sure that Gwewedu got the necessary training he needed so that he could take care of the garden while he is away,’ said the proud Nana.