The Cancer Association of South Africa (CANSA) encourages women to take care of themselves by knowing their bodies, the signs of cancer and taking up their right to cancer screening to promote early detection. Gerda Strauss, CANSA’s head service said: “Women generally put others first. We want women to realise that they too have the right to prioritise their health. “We know that we are living in unprecedented times with Covid-19 taking centre stage in our lives, however the cancer risk does not go away due to the pandemic, and that women still need to go for regular cancer screening as early detection saves lives. And get to know the early warning signs and symptoms of cancer so that you’re informed and can seek help if needed.” Strauss said that some women, especially older women or those with underlying conditions like high blood pressure, heart disease or diabetes may be reluctant to get screening, as they are more at risk due to Covid-19. “However, appointments for clinical breast examinations and pap smears can be made at CANSA Care Centres at an affordable rate, with no need for crowding and with strict protective measures in place against the spread of Covid-19,” added Strauss. She said that women are entitled to an annual clinical breast examination when visiting primary health care centres as per the National Department of Health’s Breast Cancer Control Policy and to three free Pap smears per lifetime, starting at the age of 30 years or older, with a 10 year interval between each smear. “Those who are HIV positive, should be screened for cervical cancer subsequently every three years if the screening test is negative and at yearly intervals if the screening test is positive,” Strauss said. Strauss said that women should do regular monthly breast self-examinations, as breast and cervical cancers are the leading cause of death among South African women. “Breast is the most diagnosed cancer, with a lifetime risk of one in 25, according to the 2016 National Cancer Registry (NCR). Cervical cancer is the second most commonly diagnosed (excluding basal cell carcinoma) amongst women. The estimated life-time risk among all women in South Africa is one to 35”, Strauss said. Strauss added that CANSA encourages women to familiarise themselves with the risk factors and symptoms of early stage cervical changes, although women may only present with symptoms at a later stage in the disease. “Cervical cancer can be effectively treated if detected and diagnosed early. Let us adopt lifestyle behaviours that can help lower the risk for breast and cervical cancers by being physically active, maintaining a healthy weight, avoiding alcohol and tobacco, eating balanced meals, avoiding sexual activity at an early age and engaging in sexual activities with different partners or risky sexual behaviour, which increases the chances of getting HPV. Women should also avoid exposure to known cancer causing agents.”