The Coalition of the Poor has expressed great dissatisfaction following the swearing in of embattled former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede as a Member of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature (MPL) last week. She is replacing the late Ricardo Mthembu as a member of the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) portfolio committee. In a statement, the organisation said: “The decision by the ANC to promote her despite serious charges is a slap in the face for the long-suffering citizens of eThekwini, who have experienced a terrible lack of service delivery, looting of resources of the city, harassment, violence and evictions during her time as mayor. A tenure leader should never be remembered by fear, shame and disgust felt by citizens.” The organisation voiced how they felt on the redeployment of cadres which is symbolised by the argument which the ANC uses, “innocent until proven guilty”. “This argument may meet the legal criteria, however, falls short of the moral law which all leaders should put first and foremost. This ‘innocent until proven guilty’ argument is a smokescreen proving they are unwilling and unable to discipline their members, who have taken the law upon themselves. In the wake of increased corruption around Covid-19 procurement, this is a clear signal that the ANC government is unwilling and incapable of correcting itself. The voice of the people must prevail.” George Bonono of Abahlali baseMjondolo said that it is indeed a disgrace to hear that a person facing such charges is re-appointed. “This reiterates that the ANC is not a movement for the poor but that of individuals who are taking the country’s money into their own stomach. The ANC has been singing a song that it will fight corruption, but this is just one of their ongoing hymns,” said Bonono. He said that it is clear that the lives of those who are suffering, with no toilet facilities and are victims of the former mayor’s corruption do not matter to the ruling party. “We are disgusted and this is a huge disgrace,” Bonono said. Ethekwini DA caucus leader, Nicole Graham said that as the DA they are also disgusted by the ANC’s move. “It is obvious that the former mayor is a powerful figure in the ANC who has protection in high places. Why else would she earn a promotion back to the legislature when her absolute disgraceful behaviour is so clear for all to see? The ANC is a criminal organisation with no intention of rooting out corruption or holding it’s own, who do wrong, accountable,” said Graham. She said that this move is a slap in the face of every eThekwini resident, and indeed of every resident of KZN who now has to foot the bill for Gumede’s lifestyle. The South African Communist Party, Moses Mabhida branch said it had been inundated with enquiries on the recent redeployment of Gumede to the KwaZulu-Natal legislature. Sifiso Gwala, provincial spokesperson said: “We want to put on record that the SACP in the province was neither alerted nor consulted on the redeployment of councillor Gumede and only learnt about it when it appeared on television screens. “Such development occurred when we were preparing to forward our concerns as the party about learning from the media on the recall of the mayor of Phongola Local Municipality, speaker of Umngeni Local Municipality, deputy mayor of eMadlangeni and speaker of UMkhanyakude District Municipality from their deployment without being forewarned or consulted as the Alliance partner.” He said that it is was saddening and surprising that deployments, redeployments and recalling of deployees can be done in KZN outside the Provincial Deployment Committee. “This emerging kind of leadership within the alliance undermines the essence of the foundations of the Revolutionary Alliance, Organisational Ethical Morality and internal party democracy,” Gwala said. He said as the SACP they were left baffled, disappointed and flabbergasted by this action. “The party will call a special Provincial Executive Committee meeting on Sunday and among matters to be discussed will be this redeployment, recall of municipal mayors and municipal speakers, developments around Covid-19 and corruption in KwaZulu-Natal municipalities and provincial government at large,” Gwala said.