Business owners in the Westvillle area have taken the sole responsibility of keeping the area clean by starting the Keep Westville Beautiful campaign. Leading the initiative, owner of RM Promo, Liesel Muhl said: “I have noticed just how dirty Westville has become lately, so in a discussion with Allan van Rooyen, from Jag Security we decided to start a cleanup.” Muhl said that the two main areas that were a problem are St James Avenue and Buckingham Terrace. “Many people walk and chuck their rubbish down. This is an ongoing issue, many people have over the years cleaned-up and later gave up as it is never-ending. Illegal dumping is also a problem. Look at Syringa and Nala drives as examples,” she said. The business owners had a cleanup last Thursday. The cleanup took place in Westville central and saw three bakkie loads of rubbish being collected around just one block. Explaining his reasons for joining the initiative, Allan van Rooyen said: “As we are in the security business and operate in the Westville area, we feel that it is our duty to help keep the area looking clean and presentable. A clean area leads to a safer area.” Also part of the initiative, chairman of the Westville Country Club, Ed Pieret said: “My team and I maintain the Westville Eco Trail and we see the cleanup as part of our social responsibility. On the day of the cleanup, we cut down alien trees on the Baden Bridge and filled my bakkie with litter that we picked up in that area. It was a great success in my opinion.” Westville PR councillor, Caelee Laing was also present at the cleanup. “A few weeks ago, I was contacted by a member of the Keep Westville Beautiful volunteer group to inform me that they are doing community cleanups. Councillor Melanie Brauteseth and I joined the first cleanup two weeks ago and again last week. I think it is important for communities, community leaders and public representatives to work together to improve our communities.” The public is encouraged to follow Keep Westville Beautiful on Facebook to find
out more. Muhl is urging the public to be part of this initiative, especially during loadshedding hours. “We encourage people to do productive load-shedding, as it is the best time to go out and adopt a spot,” she said.