Simeon Daniel, from Arena Park, who was tragically killed in an horrific accident on the Higginson Highway on 20 August, a day before his 27th birthday celebration, has been described by his family as their source of joy and strength. Annalyn Daniel, sister of the deceased, described him as a loving and kind-hearted person who was always there when the family needed him. “He was completing his masters degree in mechanical engineering. He enjoyed watching sports, playing online games and spending time with his family and friends. He also loved attending church services.” The untimely death of the master’s student has left a void that his sister said will not be filled, especially for their parents. “His motto was, ‘never lose hope and always look for the good in people.’ My brother was very caring and always put the needs of others first no matter the time or place. Simeon was a happy-go-lucky person who had a zest for life. The things that he had achieved at his age were unbelievable.” Simeon was driving along Higginson Highway when he allegedly lost control of his vehicle and veered off the road, crashing his car into the palisade fencing. The scene was attended by police members and paramedics, who pronounced him dead at the scene. Sanjay Mohan of Pro Secure who was in attendance said: “The man was driving a grey Audi. He lost control of his vehicle and veered off to the extreme right colliding with the concrete palisade fencing. His engine was ripped off from his vehicle. He was thrown out of the vehicle and flung onto the tree.” Simeon was laid to rest on Saturday, 22 August.  Communications officer of Chatsworth SAPS, Captain Cheryl Pillay has appealed for witnesses that could shed some light on the crash. She said: “Upon arrival at the crime scene, police officers from Chatsworth SAPS noticed that the deceased was on the pavement with severe injuries. Police are requesting assistance from the public who may have witnessed this accident. Chatsworth SAPS is investigating a case of culpable homicide.” If anyone has any information, call 031 451 4310 alternatively Crime Stop on 086 00 10111.