It’s time for mountain bikers and trail runners to shake off the lockdown-induced cobwebs and hit the trails once again with the virtual Sappi Scottburgh Virtual MTB and Trail Running event. The Quattro ROAG Series powered by Momentum came to a temporary halt in March after just two of the ten scheduled events for this year, but on the weekend of Friday, 28 August to Sunday, 30 August, the popular KwaZulu-Natal based trail running and mountain biking series will be restarting with the ROAG. While the series organisers are still finalising details with the race directors of many of the remaining seven events, on Friday to Sunday next week, riders and runners will be able to enjoy the pleasure of taking part in an organised competition, albeit virtually and with no head-to-head racing. The organisers of the Scottburgh event have negotiated with local land owners and will open up some of their trails for the extended weekend, although the routes are still in their raw, unprepared state. This means that runners and riders can run and ride on the same trails they would normally be racing on, however, as with most virtual events, competitors can also take part on any trail that suits them at any venue. The only requirement for the Sappi Scottburgh Virtual race is that riders and runners must “compete” on an off-road route and must obey all Covid-19 lockdown rules. ROAG Managing Director, Nicole Talbot, was excited about the restart of the well-known series: “We know how frustrating it has been for the riders, runners and race organisers to have their mountain biking and trail running plans on hold for the past few months, so we are thrilled to be able to announce the restart of the 2020 Quattro ROAG Series powered by Momentum.” Talbot said that they are determined to complete the series in 2020 for a variety of reasons, one of which being that the organisation wishes to send out a positive message to the cycling and trail running communities that Covid-19 will not beat them. “We also owe it to help the event and series sponsors, as well as the race organisers who put so much time and effort into planning their events. We also believe it is important for riders and runners to have an incentive to train in these tough times,” she said. Starting with a virtual event over three days at Scottburgh later this month, Talbot said that this allows the organisers to ease into the series without riders and runners congregating in one area at one time. There will be a R50 entry fee for the Sappi Scottburgh Virtual race with a portion of that fee being donated to the Cycling 4 Mobility charity, which is an official beneficiary of the event. Although there will not be an official results list and prize giving, all competitors at the Sappi Scottburgh will earn points toward their ROAG Series points and the event will count as a completed event for all finishers. The latest standings will also be updated as results are submitted to give competitors an unofficial live leaderboard throughout the weekend. For more information regarding the series and events visit https://roag.org or www.roagseries.co.za