Shanaaz Paruk, CEO of Penny Appeal, a charity organization, has recently been involved with providing relief to the vulnerable during the Covid-19 lockdown. Tabloid Newspapers spoke to Paruk about her passion for helping others and what inspires her. Tabloid Newspapers (TN): Who exactly is Shanaaz Paruk?
Shahnaaz Paruk? (SP): I was born in Durban, and schooled at Ridge Park College, before moving over to Al-Falaah College for my matric year. I then studied at the then UKZN Howard College, before a series of part-time studies while I worked. TN: What do you do for a living?
SP: I am the CEO of Penny Appeal South Africa. My passion for developing youth and communities and making a difference in the lives of the vulnerable has shaped my career choices. I was led into the humanitarian field many years ago, and have since committed myself fully to the transformation of vulnerable lives and communities. I have 15 years of experience in the NGO/Humanitarian field, and so a natural progression ensued within this field. TN: Was helping others always something you wanted to do and why?
SP: I am blessed to have come from a family background which was inclined to assisting and helping those less fortunate. My Islamic faith has also paved the way to make the concept of giving second nature. Charitable giving in islam is one of the pillars of our faith. Helping others came as second nature to me, and in my final year of school, I applied for social work which I was accepted for, but oddly chose to pursue Media and Communication instead. Fate being what it is I now work in a field which focuses on helping others. I feel that by extending a hand in a dignified manner to assist someone in need, or in a vulnerable situation, we provide hope and an opportunity for them to improve their lives. This is the true essence of development and it can transform communities if we apply our efforts with this in mind. TN: What is Penny Appeal all about and what do they they do?
SP: Penny Appeal South Africa is a relief and development organisation. Our vision is to transform lives and empower communities to take strides in helping to break the poverty cycle and build brighter futures. We make charitable giving affordable and rewardable, ensuring everyone can do their bit to assist the needy by donating just a few rand each day collectively. All our projects are carefully constructed and designed to be accessible and effective. They are a blend of emergency support, short-term relief and longer-term sustainable interventions. This multi-focus approach means we can save lives immediately, improve situations in the coming days and weeks, and transform communities for years to come, always giving vulnerable people the support they need depending on their situation. My favourite part of the work we do is when I see the looks of happiness, and joy on the faces of people we assist, knowing that this was a team effort. This humbles me, and at times moves me to tears, because it makes me realise how truly fortunate we are, and how little it actually takes to make someone happy. It also gives me a sense of fulfillment to know that we have successfully executed the donations of our sponsors and donors, ensuring that the beneficiary is happy and their needs met. TN: You work with the municipal authorities on various projects, tell us about that.
SP: The humanitarian sector thrives on collaborations and partnerships, and it is always best practice to join hands and inculcate a sense of working together with various players in the NGO sector, as well as within government. Our partnership with Cogta was welcomed as a means for Penny Appeal to be included with other key NGO role players, as I believe the key to creating change cannot be done by one single organisation. We are thankful to Cogta for extending an invitation to Penny Appeal and other like-minded NGO s to work collectively toward a common objective. TN: Who inspires you the most?
SP: I am continuously inspired by my amazing team here at Penny Appeal, as well as my parents. Nelson Mandela, and Jacinda Ardern (PM of New Zealand) are high on my inspiring personalities too. TN: What book are you currently reading?
SP: I am known to be an avid reader, and so its not uncommon for me to be reading more than one novel of varying genres. Currently reading Souvankham Thammavongsa’s How to Pronounce Knife with intermittent change overs between Leadership as Healing by Shabbir Banoobhai and The Disruptors – by Gus Silber and Kerryn Krige TN: What is your favourite movie and why?
SP: I am secretly a Marvel movie fan. Anything to do with a superhero/heroine, with a plot twist and saving the world is my go-to. It’s the perfect mix of good vs evil, usually with a happy ending, my preferred auto pilot choice. As a child, I do recall being fond of Mary Poppins, and Gone with the Wind two classics I still enjoy. TN: What do you prefer doing in your leisure time?
SP: When I find the time, you will find me either cooking up a storm for family or friends to enjoy, or curling up with a book. Being Pisces, a walk on the beach and spending time in the sand is a must. TN: What is your favourite food and why?
SP: I enjoy Thai food as the authentic taste and heat is quite unique and appealing. TN: How are you coping with the coronavirus pandemic?
SP: I take each day as it comes. Being in the industry that I am in, it presents its own set of daily challenges, and constant stress around the way in which we operate, our projects, and of course our health, especially when we are out in the field. When I begin to feel anxious, I remind myself that this too shall pass, and that there is much to be thankful for, and allow myself some downtime and relaxation. Then its usually business as usual. I miss my family and friends terribly- both here in Durban and other cities, many of whom I cannot see due to Covid Lockdown regulations. I remain thankful however for the gift of good health, and all that we have despite the challenges. TN: Describe some of your experiences on the field and how do you think people in KwaZulu-Natal are affected by the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown? SP: Many people in KZN have been affected by the corona virus pandemic in varying ways. Some have experienced the economic hardship as a result of loss of employment, or having breadwinners no longer having a source of income. Others have experienced the loss of a family member, or loved one, while many are learning to cope with the loneliness, and new way of life with masks, social distancing and the like. My experience in the field has been something new each time I am out there. I have had experiences of meeting people who were once upon a time self sustaining, and now suddenly facing a loss of income and uncertainty when it comes to their future, and maintaining their once comfortable life. I have experienced the warmth of communities who have always had less than others, yet who welcomed our teams to their areas with smiles and songs of grace. And then there have been the children I have met some with eyes which are dull and hungry, and then who flash a brilliant smile that makes me want to hug them or do a happy dance with them, and those who’s eyes and smiles steal my heart every single time. Despite the challenges being faced, and hardship borne by so many, I believe the people of KZN live in hope of better days to come, and that we are a truly resilient city like the rest of our nation. TN: What is your message to women especially during this coronavirus pandemic?
SP: Women are the custodians of society. From many religious perspectives, including my own, women were the ones who were at the centre of all things wholesome and good, and who held the beacon of light which shaped families and nations. We need to hold on to our value system now more than ever,and do our bit to remain patient in times of adversity, and support each other so that we can remain positive in the hope of a better tomorrow. Stay strong, and stay positive, remain hopeful. TN: Tell us about some of your achievements
SP: I have been the recipient of two awards in 2019 both advocating for and acknowledging women in leadership and as positive contributors to society. I was also recruited as one of the youngest female CEO s within the NGO space, which lead to my team and I achieving a host of positive and impactful project initiatives. None of these achievements would have been possible without the support of my team at Penny Appeal SA. TN: How has working with the vulnerable taught you about life?
SP: It has made me thankful for everything I have, and appreciate the blessings we have. I have also realised that I/we are the fortunate ones who are chosen to assist their need. It is us who need them, not the other way around. Communities and individuals we work with have taught me, and transformed my thoughts and realisations by giving me a new vision of what humanity is. This has helped me discover a new and meaningful way of life quite different from what society advocates, and also to realise that there is great opportunity and potential in developing communities and helping them reach their true potential in becoming self sustaining. TN: What do you spend most of your time doing?
SP: Most of my time is spent with Penny Appeal business, and finding new innovative ways of working. I also spend a lot of time balancing between strategic growth for the organisation and team, so that we can do the best. We offer positive influence to society when striving to make a difference to those in need.