Ladysmith Police are searching for four armed suspects, who are gaining access to residents homes and robbing them by impersonating the police. A resident and her boyfriend living in Verbena street, in Acaciaville, are still in shock, after they were both held up, robbed and traumatized by four men claiming to be from the Ladysmith Police, on Saturday evening, 1 August. The couple who asked that their identity remain anonymous told the Ladysmith Herald that they were getting ready to go to bed, when a loud knocking sound was made on the window of their bedroom. “The men demanded that we open, saying that they were the police,” said the resident. She explained that they at first thought it was just friends playing a prank on them, but soon found out that the men by the bedroom window were serious, when two appeared at the door. “They banged on the door and window, shouting that we must open up, saying that it is the police. My boyfriend opened the front door, but left the gate locked. It was then that he found himself staring down the barrel of a gun. I was completely frozen and stood silently in the sitting room,” said the resident. The four men demanded that they open the gate or else they would be arrested. The boyfriend opened the gate and the four men made their way into the small house. “It was like watching an action movie, but in slow motion, as the men pushed down my boyfriend and pushed past me to get to the room,” the resident explained. She said that every time her boyfriend asked what they wanted, they told him to keep his face down. “They hit him so hard in the face, that the sound still haunts me,” said the shocked woman. She further said that all four men wore masks and had firearms with them. “They tore up our little home, ransacking the place and throwing things on the ground.”  It is alleged that the four men accused the couple of selling alcohol. “They were going to tie us up, but they changed their minds and after ransacking the kitchen, they left. After what seems like a life-time of being frozen in fear, the men then just rushed out of the house. I managed to get the number plate and a description of the vehicle and gave all the information to the police,” said the resident. The couple then called the police, who responded to their call. “I’m just grateful that no one was injured or killed,” said the resident. She said that on close inspection, they found that their monthly salary was stolen. “My boyfriend works as a mechanic and fixes vehicles for a living. The four men stole his salary that he had earned for the month.” The couple said that they gave all the information to police, who had told them that the men were not police officers, as the vehicle number plates did not match the vehicle described by the couple. Police have opened a case of robbery and will conduct further investigations. No arrests have been made. “What just scares me is that these men said that they will be back, so I pray that this is not true.” The couple said that this is the first time that something like this has happened in their neighbourhood. “The street is usually quiet with only children and elderly walking or sitting outside and in the evenings it is also quiet because of the lockdown curfew,” said the resident.