Durban North resident Jessica Pretorius’ passion for children drove her into starting a homework centre at the Malacca Informal Settlement. Pretorius who is an Occupational Therapist by profession, said that what inspired her to start the homework centre was the thought that they could provide a space for these children to learn, to be seen, to be loved and to be given individual attention. It meant that they would be given a fair chance at learning the alphabet, learning to read and getting good marks at school. I wanted to provide a space for these children to see a future of hope and potential, where their dreams could come to life and they could develop to their full potential. I could not live with the fact that these children were failing school because they had not been taught the basics, they had not gone to pre-school or they had never had help with homework. There was an opportunity to jump in and help, and that is exactly what inspired me, she said. Pretorius said that working with The Seed Fund, a non profit organisation, she knew that great emphasis needed to be placed on the needs of children. Whenever I was at the settlement, the pre-schoolers were playing with rubbish, broken toys and dirt, while the school going kids could only greet in English. The children attend public schools, taught in English, with a high number of pupils in each class. Parents of these children have limited education or work long hours and are able to offer little assistance with homework or any educational stimulation. Additionally, the settlement does not provide an optimal environment in terms of space, lighting, noise and resources for children to complete their homework after school. She explained that even though it has been very challenging to continue with the programme during the national lockdown, they have put together weekly ‘workpacks’ for the children, gave out some books and home-made donated activities. Unfortunately, we had to stop our volunteering but gave volunteers the opportunity to assist by providing age and grade appropriate worksheets and activities that we put together and dropped off with the children. We have slowly been able to start reading stories to the children as some means of educational stimulation as most of them have not been back at school since March, she said. Speaking about the progress of the homework schooling, she said children’s attitude towards learning has positively shifted and they are excited about reading. “It has become a safe space for the children and as a result, allowed us to see some of the hidden talents and potential that would have otherwise been missed. For some children, we have seen improvements on their school reports, alongside significant progress in each child’s reading and communication in English. “The homework centre has been a constant in the lives of these children. It has become a place where these children receive a lot more than just extra reading or homework help. They are cared for and seen and loved for who they are and the volunteers that help want nothing more than to bring about love and hope in these kids lives. These children have learnt so much from this homework centre. While the main aim is education, they have learnt about rules, honesty, right and wrong, love and respect and these are things that will be carried with them throughout their entire life, said Pretorius. Pretorius added that people are more than welcome should they feel like volunteering at the homework centre. “If you are passionate about children and the future that lies ahead for them, then this is the best place for you to be able to make an impact. We have an incredible team of volunteers that love our children and this is the most beautiful thing we could have. We love people who are innovative and creative in terms of making use of what resources we have. If you have a heart and a desire to make a difference and inspire kids to dream then you can jin the team. Volunteering with us requires a sense of responsibility. “We want to know that you too have the children’s best interests at heart. We are always looking for passionate, caring, kind and adaptable people to fill a volunteer role.”