Chaos reigned at the Department of Labour offices in Phoenix on Friday, 7 August as residents were denied access into the building, due to the temperature scanner being ‘lost’. Vincent Govender said that he arrived at the offices around 4.30am and stood in the queue until the offices opened at 8am. “I have been coming to these offices for three consecutive days with no success of being assisted by this department. On Thursday, 6 August around 3pm I was number four in the queue and they said they will not be seeing to us, we must come back the next day as they had to close the offices at 4pm. When the office opened on Friday morning, we were told we could not go inside because the temperature scanner had been lost. At this time, the queue was extremely long, going all the way down to the petrol station with absolutely no social distancing or any employee ensuring that it was being applied.” Govender said that he was told to hand in his UIF documents which were being placed inside a box along with hundreds of other documents. “There is no system being followed, our documents could be mixed up with others or lost. If they can lose something as important as a scanner especially at a time when it’s needed the most, they can very easily lose people’s documents as well. “This is a government department yet no measures are being taken to ensure safety among all who use it. This department has totally gone against the measures government has put in place to ensure that transmission of the virus is controlled, instead they are blatantly spreading the virus,” Govender said. “We need urgent intervention with how things are being done here on a daily basis. There are people that use their bread and milk money to come here every single day as early at 4am and are still not getting the help they require. This is unacceptable,” added an irate Govender. Nolwazi Dlamini from Inanda said that she had first made her way to the offices on Tuesday, 4 August. “I stood in the line from 4.30am and they provided me with my UIF claim form which I was told to bring back on Friday, 7 August. I had been in the queue since 4.20am only to be told we will not be allowed inside because the temperature machine had been stolen,” said Dlamini. She said that they were separated into two lines (one for people with pending cases and another for people who were submitting documents). “Our documents were collected, checked and put inside a single cardboard box. They then gave us slips and told us to come back on a certain date next month. I have no assurance that they are going to process my documents if they are putting them in a box and if I do come back next month and find out that something is missing from the documents, I have to reapply again. I lost my job in June and I’m running out of funds, for me to come here on a daily basis is costing me money just to claim money that I’ve been accumulating over years of work, it’s unfair,” said Dlamini. She said that when she asked for a reference number so that if she comes back in future, she can say she submitted the documents but she was told that there is no reference number because it has to be system generated. “They cannot generate it on the system now because they are manually taking documents from outside the building. I can’t trust them to do their job correctly if they are losing something as basic as a temperature scanner. This is a government building, how can they only rely on one scanner for the hundreds of people that come in here daily?” questioned Dlamini. Comment from the Department of Labour was still forthcoming at the time of going to
print.