August is national women’s month, a time when we celebrate the women of our country, past and present. SPAR has long been a supporter of women through its many sponsorships. One of the supermarket giant’s main sponsorships is the SPAR Women’s Challenge: a series of women-only challenges where they run or walk 10km/5km at venues around South Africa. This year, the SPAR Women’s Challenge series had to be cancelled due to government’s regulations to curb the spread of the Coronavirus. Instead, SPAR is calling on women to participate in the SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge. On 26 September, woman will be able to choose their own route and run or walk a distance of their own choice between 6am and 6pm. Thereafter participants can share their experience on social media, using the hashtags #BeSunshine #SPARVirtualChallenge. For every entry, SPAR will donate a food parcel to a survivor of gender-based violence (GBV). Two Ambassadors of the SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge are using Women’s month as an opportunity to urge women to take the challenge and support the victims of GBV. Ouma Tema, is the founder and creative director of Plus-Fab, a range of stylish clothing for plus-sized women. She is immensely proud of being a woman and urges other women to feel the same.  “Women give life – we are life,” said Tema. Women’s Month is a time to celebrate women. My message to women is to be the change you want to see and to remember that the person you are waiting for is yourself. “Gender-based violence is a scourge in our society and we must do everything we can to create awareness. The SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge is one way of doing something about it, and of having a great day at the same time. We can all enjoy sharing an experience, even if it has to be on social media,” added Tema. Actress, writer and producer Donnalee Roberts is equally passionate about women and about the SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge. “It is wonderful that we have a month in which to celebrate women, but I think we should celebrate women every day. I have wonderful women in my life who have helped me all the way,” said Roberts.
She said that she had the privilege of being an ambassador for the SPAR Women’s Challenge series for a number of years and she is delighted to be an ambassador for the SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge. “ I love the idea of bringing sunshine into someone’s life when so many people are suffering sadness and hardship. The message of the SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge is that kindness, compassion, creativity, happiness and sunshine can never be cancelled,” said Roberts. Her whole family, including her husband, Ivan Botha who is also an ambassador for the challenge, their 10-year old daughter and five-month-old son, will be sharing the sunshine on 26 September, all dressed in yellow. More information can be obtained from https://sparvirtualchallenge.co.za/