“It takes courage to grow up and become who you really are.” ~E.E. Cummings
During the month of August, we reflect on the struggle of women during the apartheid South Africa. What is important around this aspect of reflection is remembering that the women in our history books have taken on leadership roles to make a difference and bring about transformation. Keeping the spirit real, intact and focussed on the end result is so important in personal and collective growth. Keeping it real
Being authentic is so important. Often we find ourselves ‘changing’ to suit society to conform to the norms that have been set out by others. This is also true in relationships, where we try so hard to please the next person that we forget our personal values. What happens then is that we also doubt ourselves and our values because we are not adhering to the requests of the next person. Friendships also test ones authenticity. You may find that that your circle of friendship becomes smaller when you are focused on your goal or perhaps even when you are successful at what you do. Have you thought about why that happens? A simple reason for this is because you have become more focused on your personal development and hang out with like-minded people; focusing on self-growth and development. This can be a huge step for an individual and a profound one too. Certainly, there are no right or wrongs in friendship but we should consider keeping those who love and support us (for who we are) close compared to those who make us feel awkward and doubtful. Transformation not change
There is a distinct difference between both those words. Transformation looks at a long term vision whereas change happens at the present. Here is a simple example you can change the direction of the moving car (quick, immediate and responsive) yet with transformation you look more inwardly, deeply and work on your mindset to help become a better version of yourself. Keeping this in mind, be yourself seeking growth and nourishment. Personally, I have seen how self-investment can work wonders. This helps focusing on your goal, putting forward your needs and goals and by doing this you automatically experience the world in a different way. When you invest time on yourself you live an authentic life of purpose. Do not fall into the comparison trap
During the pandemic we have spent an extraordinary amount of time on social media and this opens up an entire new world of viewing what goes on in the homes and lives of others. It is quite easy to fall into the trap of comparing yourself to someone else (based on the scroll of your screen). Remember that what you see is not always all that goes on. Life in general has happy days and times when we feel low this happens to everyone, irrespective of status: celebrity, famous sportsman or leader (these emotions are valid in every human being). Therefore do not compare your down days to smiles seen on social media, we will never know the complete experiences of another. Therefore, be true to you. About the columnist: Krsangi Radhe is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching. She is an NLP practitioner, mindset coach helping women, children and couples and time-line therapist. She is also a teacher and motivational speaker.