 The MEC for KwaZulu-Natal Department of Social Development (DSD), Nonhlanhla Khoza, has announced that a special task team has been assigned to investigate the case of suspended officials who are suspected to be implicated in the procurement of blankets and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). This follows a damning report of a forensic investigation conducted into the procurement of the goods after numerous allegations of corruption within the department. Khoza said that the investigation report had recommended that disciplinary action be taken against the acting Head of Department, acting Supply Chain Manager, Cluster Chief Directors and Supply Chain Management officials, accused of contravening, among others, sections 45, 81 and 88 of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) of 1999. The officials are also facing charges of misconduct in terms of Chapter 7, read with various SCM prescripts. MEC Khoza acknowledged the work done by a team of investigators set up by the Provincial Executive Council of KwaZulu-Natal to unearth malfeasance in the procurement of goods to be used in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.  Khoza welcomed the report, saying that the department would ensure that all those implicated would be held to account.  She added that the suspension of officials, including an employee in her office was showing commitment that the department would not tolerate corruption. “As a department we were taken aback by the outcome of the forensic investigation report, as presented by Premier Sihle Zikalala.  The information unearthed by the investigation points to the high level of recklessness by officials tasked with safeguarding taxpayers’ monies. I have since instructed the Head of Department, as an Accounting Officer, Nelly Vilakazi, to ensure that the recommendations of the report are implemented to the latter. “We take a strong exception to corruption and maladministration, especially during this period when the people are battling the scourge of Covid-19 and the ripple effect it has on other aspects of life.  We will ensure that taxpayers’ money that was spent irregularly is recovered.  Not only will we deal with officials, but we will also deal with companies that were involved in the process.  We have engaged a multidisciplinary team, comprising officials from Social Development, Office of the Premier, and Department of Public Service and Administration (DPSA) to ensure the speedy implementation of the recommendations of the report,” said Khoza She said that the department has also opened two criminal charges with the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks). The procured goods also included sanitisers, wet wipes, soups and towels. MEC Khoza thanked the Provincial Executive Council for their support during the investigation period. “We would like to thank Premier Zikalala for providing leadership on the matter and we will ensure that we complete the process by ensuring accountability for each and every cent spent.  We would also like to thank members of the media for their role in the matter,” said Khoza. 