Tourism in South Africa has taken a huge knock due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown restrictions on local and international travel. Though domestic leisure travel is now permitted, under lockdown Level 2, the effects will still be felt for sometime in the South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) and the rest of the province. The devastating effects of the pandemic were recently felt with the closure of the visitor information centres (VICs) by Ugu South Coast Tourism (USCT), in the name of transformation. Phelisa Mangcu, USCT CEO, said that visitors will now be able to access all necessary tourism-related information via a number of digital platforms, including their website and app. “The global trend has seen the provision of tourist information go online, and USCT has been working with dedicated industry professionals to ensure we are fully-prepared to keep visitors informed. The arrival of Covid-19 has precipitated a ‘low-touch economy’ which is likely to remain in place for some time, so as to ensure staff and visitor safety,” Mangcu said.
The South Coast, throughout the year, is usually a hive of activity, from the sardine run in the winter months to summer strolls, surfing and events through their 58 beaches in the summer. Nicknamed ‘The Golf Coast,’ there are 11 golf courses on the KZN South Coast ranging in difficulty, with endless hiking, mountain biking and 4×4 trails for a more rugged excursion. Mangcu said: “Businesses across all industries have had to adapt to a digital reality in order to survive, and tourism is no different. Even before the pandemic, USCT has been developing its digital footprint. This allows us to reach a much wider tourism audience with targeted, up-to-date information on our ever-growing tourism sites and activities. Further to this, the move from printed material will allow for cost savings, as well as decreasing our carbon footprint.” She said that the role of VICs had changed over the years, with more visitors likely to turn to their mobile phones or other electronic devices, to research the information they need for a visit to the KZN South Coast.