After 15-years of being one of the biggest sponsors of the ‘Ultimate Human Race,’ Bonitas has severed ties with the Comrades Marathon. Cheryl Winn, chairperson of the Comrades Marathon Association (CMA), confirmed on Thursday, 27 August, that the relationship had run its course and has reached the finish line. Winn said that they were saddened by the loss of Bonitas as one of their corporate sponsors, ahead of the 2021 centenary year celebrations. “We are pleased that the last year of our collaboration was a memorable one. The actual 2020 Comrades Marathon might have been cancelled due to the global Covid-19 pandemic however, our ‘Race The Comrades Legends’ virtual run was an overwhelming success, with 43 788 participants running in cities, towns, villages and rural areas throughout South Africa and around the world, proudly brandishing their Bonitas Comrades Race Numbers as a testament to how as runners we can adapt our sport and survive,” Winn said. Bonitas hosted the Winners Circle at the Comrades Marathon Finish Venue, as a component of its presence at the Comrades Marathon Finish and supported the Comrades Bailer Buses for many years. On the television broadcast side, they also sponsored the Eye-in-the-Sky helicopter, which provided a birds-eye view and brought a fascinating additional dimension to the Comrades race day commentary. Winn confirmed that a search for a replacement running mate was already underway. “CMA is already actively seeking new high profile sponsors to take up the rights, commencing with what will be our most innovative, inclusive and momentous 2021 Centenary Year Celebrations. We would like to thank Bonitas for their many years of investment and support. During those 15 years, together we were able to introduce innovative ideas and host informative seminars and workshops to assist runners, all thanks to Bonitas, who were with us every step of the way,” Winn added. Lee Callakoppen, principal officer of Bonitas, said that removing their sponsorship was not a decision that was taken lightly by the company. “After this long association we are still very invested in the ethos behind the race. Every year we have been in awe of the dedication, tenacity and commitment of the thousands of local and international runners who tackle this gruelling route. It is all about celebrating ordinary people doing extraordinary things,” Callakoppen said. He blamed the decision on the Covid-19 which has forced the medical aid company to shift its focus and redirect funds. “It has meant us adapting our business model to be more agile to ensure we are providing members the care they need. We have therefore decided to channel our funds into strategic healthcare and wellness initiatives,” Callakoppen said. The pandemic also forced the cancellation of the 2020 edition of the Comrades. Callakoppen wished the CMA all the best for 2021 and beyond. “The Comrades is such an iconic and proudly South African event and we are very proud to have been part of the journey for all these years,” he said.