Medical facilities in Durban are experiencing high volumes of admissions, leaving home based treatment as the next best alternative for severely affected Covid-19 patients. In this time of dire need, the Islamic Medical Association of South Africa (IMASA) based in Durban, has embarked on a programme to provide oxygen concentrator machines to positive Covid patients who face challenges, including those who are either discharged from hospital and require supplementation of oxygen at home or patients who cannot find beds in hospital but are desperate for oxygen therapy at home. A list of protocols have been listed by IMASA for patients to follow should they require at-home treatment. “The patient has to contact the treating physician and get a form filled by the physician as to the oxygen saturation status of the patient and recommendation for further oxygen supplementation. There is also an indemnity form for terms and conditions as agreed upon by the patient and IMASA for the loan of the machine,” explained Dr Ebrahim Khan, chairperson of IMASA-Dbn. He further explained that the units on loan are free to Covid-19 positive patients with a minimal refundable deposit, and upon receipt of the completed forms, a panel of IMASA doctors will review the application and make a decision on the permissibility of providing such machines.The deep concern gave rise to a call for donations for these machines and the Caring Sisters Network(CSN) have risen to the occasion of need and joined in to assist with the project. Yasiera Mahomed-Suliman, chairperson of CSN and IMASA-Dbn Home Oxygen project co-ordinator said: “Being part of the IMASA home based oxygen campaign co-ordinating committee and a health worker, the need for procuring funds for oxygen concentrator units became crucial. A campaign was launched within the IMASA networks for donation of funds for the units. “There are many units on the market and extensive research has been done on the best units for home treatment. Advice was taken from expert medical personnel including anaesthetists and pulmonologists. The units can cost anywhere between R10 000 and R20 000.” Mohamed-Suliman further stated that funds for seven oxygen concentrator units, seven pulse oximeters and 50 consumable packs were raised for donation to the IMASA-Dbn Home based Oxygen campaign. “With generous donations from partnering organisations like CSN, IMASA members, health professionals and the community, the Durban branch of IMASA has managed to procure 30 oxygenator units.” These oxygen concentrator machines are available for free and on loan to Covid-19 positive patients of all communities and can be collected from the IMASA offices in Durban. For more information, contact Shireen on 031 209 7838 or 031 207 4223.