After having to endure long queues for almost three months at various Post Offices, South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) Social Relief of Distress (SRD) beneficiaries will now collect their grants at their chosen financial outlets. This follows an announcement made by SASSA CEO, Totsie Memela that all SDR grants can be collected at any chosen outlet starting from Monday, 3 August until Sunday, 9 August. She said that beneficiaries can register for an electronic option to have the grant payment made via e-Wallet or cash send facilities. “We are appealing to all SDR beneficiaries to ensure that their information is captured correctly. If choosing a bank account, ensure that the account is in your name. If choosing a money transfer option, please ensure that the cell phone number provided is correct and is registered in your name. Just like with a bank account, SASSA cannot pay the grant into a cell phone which is registered to another person. We are a listening government and these changes emanate from beneficiaries who appealed to us to provide them this flexibility and we duly obliged,” said Memela. According to SASSA statement, this development is a response to the challenges some beneficiaries have experienced in trying to access their special relief grant from post offices, including long queues. “Beneficiaries end up having to be sent home empty handed. Beneficiaries of the Covid-19 Social Relief of Distress are requested not to visit the post office during the first seven days of the month as that week is reserved for payment of the normal grants,” explained Memela. SASSA said the payment of the special grants is quicker if paid into a bank account. Citizens without bank accounts are encouraged to open an account. “Please help SASSA to help you access the money to which you are entitled without delay by ensuring that your details are correct, the payment channel most convenient to you is selected and that the information provided is accurate,” she concluded. Any citizen who does not update their information during this window period, or those who provide incorrect banking details will have the payments for the remaining months sent through to the post office said the statement. Responses to frequently asked questions about this relief grant can be found on the WhatsApp platform on 082 046 8553. Beneficiaries can change their payment preference online via: srd.sassa.gov.za.