Concerted efforts by members of KwaMashu detectives led to a breakthrough with five suspects aged between 17 and 24 arrested on Monday morning. The suspects are alleged to be involved in the murder of Newlands East pupil, Renardo ‘Jinanda’ Naidu ,20, whose body was found, last Sunday. Police spokesperson Captain Lindani Mdletshe said that it is alleged that on Sunday, 26 July 2020 at 4pm, victim Renardo Naidu was found with stab wounds on his body, along Dumisani Makhaye highway, next to Siyanda and he was rushed to a local clinic where he was certified dead. A case of murder was opened for investigation. “The team worked tirelessly to solve this murder case and the investigation led them to Newland East where four suspects were arrested. Further investigation led them to a certain house in Effingham area where a fifth suspect was apprehended. The suspects are expected to briefly appear in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court soon,” said Mdletshe. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, Community Liaison Officer for the Newlands East Watch Community Safety and assistant secretary for the Newlands Community Police Forum, Lucrecia Joanne Ryan said that it was heartbreaking when news of Renardo’s death broke. “We had mobilised as a community to search for one of our own members. We gathered on the John Dory Grounds to discuss search areas when we were notified that the family was proceeding to Phoenix to follow up on a lead about a deceased young man. So we waited for news, still hoping that Renardo was alive out there. “Tragically, our worst fear was realised when we were informed that Renardo was identified at the Phoenix morgue. The community is still in shock. Renardo was a soft spoken young man. He was attacked and stabbed in April where he sustained and survived 17 stab wounds. Three youth under 20 years were identified as his assailants. The case was scheduled to be heard in court last Tuesday. Sadly, that’s the day Renardo’s body was identified at the morgue,” Ryan said. “We are still reeling from news of this brutal murder. Renardo did not deserve to have his life snuffed out in this way. His family is devastated. We are thankful that police are working swiftly to determine what transpired and why this quiet young man was killed so violently,” added Ryan.