Members of the Chatsworth Community Policing Forum (CCPF) said that they will not tolerate family members abusing their elderly relatives. This follows the recent incident on Fleet Street in Westcliff, where the CPF were called in to intervene on behalf of the pensioners who was allegedly being abused by her son. Ward 70 Councillor Tony Govender said that he received a call from a frantic daughter of the victim who lives in Pietermaritzburg, claiming that her brother was continuously verbally abusing their parents who are in their 70’s. He relayed the message to Chatsworth Community Policing Forum chairperson, Jakes Singh, Westcliff sub-sector chairperson, Alvin Singh, Fleet Street patroller’s chairperson, Siva Reddy, Lawrence Pillay and other community activists who assisted in solving this issue. Singh, who was among the immediate responders, visited the family home and spoke to the elderly parents before giving a stern warning to the alleged abuser. “Our elderly residents must know that they are not alone and that they can call on their community leaders and councillors if they are being verbally or physically abused by anybody including their relative,” Singh said. He advised victims that there are protection orders that one can get if they no longer feel safe. According to The Association for the Aged (TAFTA), they see an average of three elder abuse cases per month. Statistics indicate that perpetrators of abuse are most commonly family members that live with elders. Fears of the elderly suffering in silence behind closed doors, locked in with abusive family members and carers, has raised concern. Kemmy Leigh Moodley of TAFTA said, most elder abuse cases go unreported and the victims usually protect the perpetrators to avoid having their abusive family member being implicated. “Therefore most cases go unnoticed and cannot be reported by friends, neighbours or other family members,” Moodley said. She added: “Around 63 percent of reported abuse cases involve a female victim, 53 percent of these cases implicate a male perpetrator. These statistics indicate gender-based violence as a form of abuse against elders as well.”