The famous Humphrey is aiming to reach the R1 million mark by the end of this year to help out his furry friends at the Durban and Coast SPCA. Humphrey’s owner, Alwyn Immerman said that the little friend which he adopted back in 2011 at the Durban and Coast SPCA has helped the SPCA with donations over the years. “On Thursdays at 2pm to 9pm and Sundays at 8am to 6pm, Humphrey accompanies me to the uMhlanga’s MediSport Pharmacy where I work as a pharmacist. During these days he normally takes his place just inside the store near the jar and a big box for his SPCA collection,” Immerman said. He said that over the years, they have donated close to R300 000 to buy food and necessities for the orphan pets.“This year, my mission is to get a pet food manufacturer that will partner with us by using Humphrey’s picture on their products. With this, we will be able to donate a certain percentage towards the SPCA. Thanks to Humphrey, we are also able to buy a bulk load of Montago dog food once a month, which we donate to the SPCA for it’s outreach programme.” Even though the Durban and Coast SPCA recieves food from the outreach programme, Immerman said that during the lockdown, the SPCA has experienced a lot of difficulties since they are unable to do any fundraising events and other donations have been quite scarce. “Tanya Feischer from the SPCA recently told me that the facility is starting to run dry because of the national lockdown. I decided to approach one of my friends and he recently did a R5 000 donation that will help towards buying food and blankets for the pets. I have also approached my friends from Johannesburg to donate towards this cause to reach the R1 million mark by the end of this year and I absolutely have no doubt that Humphrey will reach and go even above the million bar,” he added.
Immerman applauds the SPCA for the phenomenal work they are doing to keep orphan pets out of the streets and warm. He also urged the public to get involved by helping out at the facility while facing these difficult times. “People need to know that there are others like Humphrey that are wanting good homes,” he added. Tanya Feisher, SPCA’s marketing manager said that Humphrey has been an inspiration to the SPCA and they are constantly overwhelmed by his generosity. “He has helped feed hundreds of dogs and cats over the years as well as providing them with warm blankets to snuggle in. “Every donation helps make a difference in the lives of animals we rescue, care for and re-home,” she said. If you would like to help, visit the website for details www.spcadbn.org.za.