President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday evening, 23 March announced new measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic which included a nation-wide lockdown for 21 days starting from midnight Thursday, 26 March until midnight Thursday, 16 April. Ramaphosa called it a “decisive measure” to flatten the curve of infections and save millions of lives. This, after the President met with the National Coronavirus Command Council and various role-players. Last week, the president declared the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic a national disaster and announced measures to combat the “grave public health emergency.” Ramaphosa announced that there are 340 000 confirmed cases worldwide and that South Africa’s confirmed cases have increased six-fold in just eight days from 61 cases to 402 cases, and will continue to rise.“Therefore “immediate, swift and extraordinary action is required if we are to prevent a human catastrophe. It is essential that every person in this country adheres strictly to the regulations that have already been put in place and to the measures that are announced, ” said Ramaphosa.The nation-wide lockdown will be enacted in terms of the Disaster Management Act and will entail the following: From midnight on Thursday 26 March until midnight on Thursday 16 April, all South Africans will have to stay at home. Exemptions are as follows:  -Health workers in the public and private sectors, emergency personnel, those in security services – such as the police, traffic officers, military medical personnel, soldiers – and other persons necessary for the response to the pandemic.  -Those involved in the production, distribution and supply of food and basic goods, essential banking services, the maintenance of power, water and telecommunications services, laboratory services, and the provision of medical and hygiene products. A full list of essential personnel will be published. Measures to be implemented:  – Individuals will not be allowed to leave their homes except under strictly controlled circumstances, such as to seek medical care, buy food, medicine and other supplies or collect a social grant. Temporary shelters will be identified for homeless people. Sites are being identified for quarantine and self isolation for people who cannot self-isolate at home. Shops and businesses will be closed, except for pharmacies, laboratories, banks, essential financial and payment services, including the JSE, supermarkets, petrol stations and health care providers. – Companies that are essential to the production and transportation of food, basic goods and medical supplies will remain open. A full list of the categories of businesses that should remain open will be published. Companies whose operations require continuous processes such as furnaces, underground mines etc   will be required to make arrangements for care and maintenance. Operations done remotely is encouraged. Essential transport services will continue, including transport for essential staff and patients. The South African National Defence Force will be deployed to support the South African Police Service in ensuring that the measures are implemented.– A public health management programme will increase screening, testing, contact tracing and medical management. Community health teams will focus on expanding screening and testing where people live, focusing first on high density and high-risk areas. A system will be put in place for ‘centralised patient management’ for severe cases and ‘decentralised primary care’ for mild cases. Emergency water supplies – using water storage tanks, water tankers, boreholes and communal standpipes – are being provided to informal settlements and rural areas.  Additional measures to be implemented with immediate effect: South African citizens and residents arriving from high-risk countries will be placed under quarantine for 14 days. Non-South Africans arriving on flights from high-risk countries will be turned back. International flights to Lanseria Airport will be temporarily suspended. International travellers who arrived in South Africa after 9 March from high risk countries will be confined to their hotels until they have completed a 14-day period of quarantine. Measures to mitigate the economic impact: Interventions that will help to cushion society from economic difficulties. This is phase one of the economic response. Further measures are under consideration. Provision of support to the vulnerable: A Solidarity Fund, which South African businesses, organisations and individuals, and members of the international community, can contribute to. Website: www.solidarityfund.co.za. Government is providing seed capital of R150 million with the private sector pledging support Rupert and Oppenheimer families contribution of R1 billion each to assist small businesses and their employees affected by the coronavirus pandemic. Regulations have been put in place to prohibit unjustified price hikes, to ensure shops maintain adequate stocks of basic goods and to prevent people from ‘panic buying’. – Manufacturers and distributors of basic necessities have indicated that there will be a continuous supply of these goods. There is no need for stockpiling. A safety net is being developed to support persons in the informal sector. To alleviate congestion at payment points, old age pensions and disability grants will be available for collection from 30 and 31 March, while other categories of grants will be available for collection from 01 April. All channels for access will remain open, including ATMs, retail point of sale devices, Post Offices and cash pay points. Proposal for a special dispensation for companies that are in distress because of COVID-19. Through this proposal employees will receive wage payment through the Temporary Employee Relief Scheme, which will enable companies to pay employees directly during this period and avoid retrenchment. Employee falling ill through exposure at their workplace will be paid through the Compensation Fund. Commercial banks have been exempted from provisions of the Competition Act to enable them to develop common approaches to debt relief and other necessary measures. Large companies that are currently closed have accepted their responsibility to pay workers affected. Larger businesses to take care of their workers during this period. If necessary, the reserves within the UIF system to be utilised to support workers in SMEs and other vulnerable firms who are faced with loss of income. Details to made available within the next few days.  Assistance to businesses that may be in distress. Provision of tax subsidy of up to R500 per month for the next four months for those private sector employees earning below R6,500 under the Employment Tax Incentive. This will help over 4 million workers. The South African Revenue Service will also work towards accelerating the payment of employment tax incentive reimbursements from twice a year to monthly to get cash into the hands of compliant employers <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Tax compliant businesses with a turnover of less than R50 million will be allowed to delay 20% of their pay-as-you-earn liabilities over the next four months and a portion of their provisional corporate income tax payments without penalties or interest over the next six months. This intervention is expected to assist over 75 000 small and medium-term enterprises. The temporary reduction of employer and employee contributions to the Unemployment Insurance Fund and employer contributions to the Skill Development Fund is being explored. The Department of Small Business Development has made over R500 million available immediately to assist small and medium enterprises that are in distress through a simplified application process. The Industrial Development Corporation has put a package together with the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition of more than R3 billion for industrial funding to address the situation of vulnerable firms and to fast-track financing for companies – The Department of Tourism has made an additional R200 million available to assist SMEs in the tourism and hospitality sector – The banking system will remain open, the JSE will continue to function, the national payment system will continue to operate and the Reserve Bank and the commercial banks will ensure that bank notes and coins are available. “We will act very strongly against any attempts at corruption and profiteering from this crisis. The action we are taking now will have lasting economic costs. In the days, weeks and months ahead our resolve, our resourcefulness and our unity as a nation will be tested as never before. I call on all of us, one and all, to play our part. To be courageous, to be patient, and above all, to show compassion. Let us never despair. For we are a nation at one, and we will surely prevail. May God protect our people. Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika. God bless South Africa, ” said Ramaphosa. Also Read: