Public transport are running, blocked roads are opened, closed businesses in the CBD area are opened and schools are welcoming back pupils, in Ladysmith, this morning, 16 March. This follows an amicable resolution between the representatives of the protesting community and the government delegation led by KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala. In recent weeks, Ladysmith and surrounding areas were thrown into chaos and turmoil when violent protests brought the town to a standstill as Ubumbano Lokuthula and Klipriver Taxi Association called for the Mayor, Vincent Madalala to step down. Zikalala convened a follow-up meeting with various stakeholders, including community representatives, the business community of Ladysmith and law enforcement agencies, on Friday, 13 March. The engagement was part of efforts by the provincial government delegation which included the MEC for Eonomic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism Nomusa Dube-Ncube and  the district mayor of Uthukela Councillor Sphiwe Mazibuko. An agreement was reached with all parties that demonstrations will stop with immediate effect and that full operations will resume. This is to put an end to the impasse that grounded all operations to a halt with huge ramifications to the economy and jobs in the town. Zikalala briefed the stakeholders about the decision of the Mayor of Alfred Duma Municipality, Councillor Vincent Madlala, to take voluntary sick leave and attend to matters of ill-health as he has been unwell. Zikalala also announced that a forensic investigation will be launched into the affairs of the municipality that will focus on allegations of corruption, maladministration and other related matters. “As government we want to announce to the people of Alfred Duma and uThukela that a solution has been found and they can go back to work and businesses can function. 
We express our appreciation for the cordial manner and spirit with which all stakeholders have participated in the resolution of the challenges during our  engagement. We reaffirm our commitment to a stable and prosperous town of Ladysmith and uThukela District in its entirety. We welcome the commitment by community leaders and the taxi industry as well as the business community to work together to restore full operations to the town,” said Zikalala. Speaking on behalf of the community organisation, Ubumbano Lokuthula, chairperson Andile Hlatshwayo said: “ We are very pleased about the announcement by the premier in regard to the issue of Mayor Madlala that he is on sick leave for two months and also an investigation that will be launched. We are happy about the commitment the premier made that the team will be appointed within 14 days and will meet with community leaders. “We thank the Premier who has shown good leadership about concerns of the people affected in Ladysmith and surroundings. We can confirm that the protest has come to a stop and everything has returned to normal from today,” said Hlatshwayo. Zikalala extended apologies to all the people of Ladsymith on behalf of stakeholders.    ” We do not want to see this situation recur in the future. The government will continue to engage with all stakeholders. We ask all those that are making allegations to make submissions to the investigating team that will be appointed. This includes anyone with allegations of wrong doing, ” said Zikalala. The Premier wished Mayor Madlala a speedy recovery as he attends to his health matters.