In an attempt to ensure that all medical students at UKZN with historical debt can register for the 2020 year, the Medical Campus Representative Council (MCRC) launched the #IMadeADoctor Fundraising campaign. The students were delighted to find out The South  African Medical Doctors Association (SAMA) has donated R550 000 to the campaign.  Within two weeks, the campaign has raised R1 million, reaching its first milestone and ensuring that all 188 students were able to register. SAMA deputy chairman, Dr Mvuyisi Mzukwa said: “The Junior Doctors’ Association of SAMA also strongly motivated for a donation and in the end the decision to assist was an easy one for us to make. Investing in future medical professionals is important and this is a tangible way in which we can make a difference.” Dr Mzukwa said that apart from investing in future doctors in South Africa, the donation should also motivate others to participate in making education a reality for those who struggle financially. “We’ve taken this step as it involves medical students who form part of our healthcare community as a medical association. But it should also serve as a message to other similar institutions and associations who represent professionals in other fields where there are students who need financial assistance, and who will benefit from their generosity,” he added.  MCRC Student Services representative, Xoliswa Njapha said that they were delighted with  the donation from SAMA. Njapha together with final year student,  Thanduxolo Dube, have been spearheading the campaign together with the College of Health Sciences and UKZN’s Fundraising arm, the Foundation.  A further R8 million is required to pay off the total historical debt.Dube said: “When we learnt that SAMA has pledged towards our campaign, we were excited. As the news settled, we felt humbled by the gesture. This was more than we expected. We really want to extend our heartfelt gratitude to SAMA. The donation goes beyond making a difference to the prospective doctors on the verge of exclusion but it reaches their families and society too. We call on our alumni and more organisations to join in and contribute,” said Dube.  Professor Busisiwe Ncama, deputy vice-chancellor and head of the College of Health Sciences, thanked SAMA for their kind donation. “We are overwhelmed with the kind gesture from our colleagues at SAMA. Both their national and provincial offices came together to support our students after hearing their plea. Thank you for assisting in ensuring that we are able to graduate more doctors in the country,” said Ncama.