The Chatsworth Centre management, with the help of volunteers from the Nelson Mandela Youth Centre, has implemented strict social distancing measures to prevent overcrowding, especially during social grant payouts. Portfolio manager at the Chatsworth Centre, Raveshin Veerasamy, said that the centre management is enforcing all measures to ensure the safety of their patrons while abiding by the guidelines given by government. “We’ve taken necessary measures such as internally demarcating the floors and setting chairs at the entrance of certain outlets for pensioners who are waiting to receive their social grant, as well as having a separate queue for patrons who wish to purchase their necessities,” said Veerasamy. He also confirmed that there were certain entrances blocked to ensure a controlled environment for those entering the mall. These changes were also brought about after a fake voice note was circulated via social media promoting the news that the centre would be closed due to overcrowding. An urgent meeting was then called by the centre’s management, SAPS and Metro, which concluded with an agreed regulation of a 1.5 metre space restriction between shoppers, to be achieved with use of trolleys. Ruby Gengan, a pensioner, was very pleased to see the measures in place while collecting her social grant. “I believe it was thoughtful of the centre’s management to provide chairs to those waiting to get inside the shops within the mall. Even the volunteers were so polite and extremely helpful to us, it just shows that during a tragic time like this, people can work together to promote a united front towards a common goal,” said Gengan. Veerasamy urges shoppers to adhere to the instructions given by law enforcement outside the mall as this is for their own safety. “Shoppers do need to understand that as much as it may be troublesome to wait for lengthy periods of time in long queues surrounding the mall, SAPS and Metro Police are doing their job as best as possible to abide by the guidelines given by government,” said Veerasamy. Metro Police also does regular checks within the mall as well as controls the number of vehicles entering the mall to ensure the prevention of overcrowding.