It was a gruesome sight that confronted a Phoenix police officer who broke open a door to gain entry into an Uppercroft Road residence on Sunday where he found the bloodied body of a decomposed man infested with worms. The 49-year-old victim has been identified as Yogambrum Dadick Pillay, also known as Tony. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said that on Sunday at 3pm, Sergeant Khanyile attended a complaint of a person who was last seen on 20 March 2020 and it was suspected that he was deceased inside the house on Uppercroft Road.“On arrival, Sgt Khanyile interviewed a neighbour who pointed out where the suspected person was. The house was locked including the burglar gate. Sgt Khanyile then broke the padlock and forced open the door. Upon entering, Sgt Khanyile noticed a man lying on his back on the bed, in the bedroom and he was decomposed. The said male had worms and blood all over his face. The ambulance was called and he was certified dead,”Naidoo said. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> She said that all the relevant personnel were also summoned to the scene. “There was no forced entry. An identity book belonging to Yogambrum Dadick Pillay was found in the kitchen,” said Naidoo. A family friend spoke to the Phoenix Tabloid on condition of anonymity and said the family has been left shattered by Pillay’s death. “Tony leaves behind three minor children whom he doted on. He lived for his children. The family has so many unanswered questions regarding their loved one’s sudden and horrific death. It was discovered that Tony’s cellphone and wallet are missing. His company vehicle, which was parked outside, was tampered with. It is alleged that he spoke to his pastor on Friday night as Tony was involved in church work,” said the family friend.“We are baffled as to what transpired that led to Tony’s death. He was not a man who would consider suicide. We are awaiting the post mortem results. This is very traumatic for his children. We want answers as to the circumstances surrounding his death. We urge anyone who may have any information that can assist police to come forward and help the family find closure,” the family friend added. An inquest has been opened at the Phoenix SAPS. Also Read: