In response to the global viral pandemic – Covid-19, a national medical  support hotline has been launched to assist South Africans, as the number of confirmed cases in the country nears the 1400 infected mark. Supported by Nedbank, the KwaZulu-Natal Doctors Healthcare Coalition (KZNDHC),  Usizo Advisory Solutions and Vula, have championed an urgent private  sector response from primary health care doctors to provide a ‘Doctors  on Call’ hotline to all South Africans. Callers pay the normal cost of a call but don’t pay to talk to the doctor. More than 450 medical doctors, across the country, have voluntarily  committed their professional time and expertise to the initiative. “Defeating
 this epidemic will require unprecedented support from all stakeholders 
in South Africa, both public and private. This support demonstrates good
 corporate citizenship and contributes towards protecting our employees,
 customers and the sustainability of business, in our country.” Says 
Prof Morgan Chetty, head of the KZNDHC and member of a task team, which 
is working with the government to coordinate a response to the 
pandemic. “Support for this program could help flatten the curve, save our health system  from being overwhelmed, protect our economy and ultimately save lives,”  says project leader Dr Anuschka Coovadia. Doctors on Call offers a Covid-19 medical helpline, established to provide  support and immediate advice to concerned callers. The service operates  on weekdays from 8am until 5pm and is manned by a dedicated unit of  doctors. “Administered by a call centre, all phone calls are received by a trained call centre  agent, screened and then routed for a telephonic consultation with a  doctor, for advice related to Covid-19. This is indeed a small step  towards a big mission” explained Coovadia. She
 said the doctors have been trained according to the national health 
guidelines standard operating processes and provide advice according to 
the NICD regulations. Nedbank acknowledges
 that this is a time of heightened anxiety for all South Africans. As a 
bank we are committed to using our money and expertise to do good by 
supporting relief measures and endorsing steps to ease the burden on 
society. “This  initiative will provide all South Africans and the most vulnerable  communities who do not necessarily have easy access to a doctor, with  the ability to engage with a doctor to initially assess their symptoms  without having to visit clinics or healthcare facilities anticipated to  experience severe pressure. We welcome this initiative as it can help limit and contain the spread of this highly infectious virus,” says  Craig Evans, Nedbank Southern Division, Divisional Executive, Retail  Business Banking. All
 calls are documented and reported using the Vula app, designed by Dr 
William Mapham. Referrals are made to the NICD for testing and results 
are captured on the Vula app. This data collection is vital in tracking 
both spread of virus and particular outbreak areas. All data collection 
is done in line with the National Institute of Infectious Diseases 
(NICD) requirements. All COVID related data will be stored by the NICD 
after the pandemic is over and studied to look for patterns that may 
assist if a similar event happens in the future. When to call: Doctors
 on Call is an independent, philanthropic, doctor-led response to 
Covdi-19. Your support for this not-for-profit program could help 
flatten the curve, save our health system from being overwhelmed, keep 
our doctors at work, protect our economy and save lives. DOCTORS ON CALL: 087 0550 234