While schools are closed due to the coronavirus pandemic, a local mathematics teacher, has started a mathematics online app called “I Do U Do Maths” that caters for pupils from grades 8 to 12. Speaking to the Tabloid Newspapers, Nirvana Gounden, who holds a Master’s degree in Education, said that the free education app which started on 30 March runs for three weeks. It will give parents and pupils, free access to mathematics past papers and additional resources that will help them prepare for their test and examinations. “I have created a smartphone interactive mathematics timetable for grades 8 to 12 that is free to use during this break in school. The app is made up of the timetable. There will be three timetables – one for each week that will cover lessons for grades 8-12, “ said Gounden.  Gounden who is the author of the smartphone interactive ‘book series’ also called “I Do U Do Maths” said: “The interactive timetable consists of selections of work from my book series. I created the online timetable after reading the news from around the world about how parents are struggling to home-school their children. I knew that my material from these books would be beneficial to the pupils during this time of the lockdown, as my content comprises of short online tuition videos and corresponding exercises,” said Gounden. The videos and the exercises are free and form part of the timetable. The video explains the exercises for the day. The exercises need not be printed. To save data, exercises can be completed by using the step-by-step examples on the worksheets without viewing the videos.  Gounden said the timetable will cover sections of the syllabus including algebra, trigonometry, geometry and calculus over a period of three weeks. The syllabus is this year’s curriculum. “I would like to reach as many pupils as possible so that they can learn and do a little bit of maths every day in their own home,” she added. Pupils can download the timetable via the link https://bit.ly/3ax9BHJ The password for access is : guest  More information can be obtained from the website: www.idoudomaths.com 