Following the presidents directive to postpone, cancel or reschedule events due to the Covid-19 virus, Durban Inkosi Albert Luthuli Convention Centre’s marketing, sales and events manager, Scott Langley said business for the ICC has been hugely effected. Langley said most of the cooperate events booked at the ICC have been rescheduled for later in the year. “After consultation with our clients we came to the decision to have most of our big events rescheduled, until after the outbreak. We are hoping that in the next three months it will be safe to host big events. All other events with fewer than 100 participants are proceeding as planned,” said Langley He said that as measures in response to the pandemic, the ICC ensures optimum hygiene standards to promote and maintain a safe and healthy space for its visitors. ” In line with the World Health Organisation’s protocols, touch-free alcohol-based hand-sanitizers are provided at all entrances to the centre, together with the official WHO signage. All high-touch surfaces such as door handles and escalator rails are sanitised regularly throughout the centre and additional precautions have been taken in our kitchens such as a buzzer which sounds every 30-minutes prompting the chefs to wash hands, mop the floors and sanitize the working surfaces. We also have Ultra-violet (UV) light air sanitizers that are used to neutralize micro-organisms and sterilize the knives in the culinary department. As this unprecedented situation continues to unfold, the Durban International Convention Centre remains vigilant and focused on delivering our global business events for our stakeholders,” said Langley. He said that Durban ICC feels strongly that it is a collective responsibility to focus on the facts and to act with common sense and sound judgement, taking the advice of the relevant authorities and scientists. ‘In the words of Gloria Guevara, President and CEO, World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), ‘containing the spread of unnecessary panic is as important as stopping the virus itself.’ We look forward to welcoming you to Durban and wish you, your business colleagues, your communities and your families everything of the best and resilience in the months to come,” said Langley.