The first day of SASSA grant payments since the 21 day lockdown saw hundreds of vulnerable pensioners standing in the relentlessly hot sun for most of the day (Monday, 30 March). At the Acropolis Mall in Phoenix, pensioners began queuing as early as 5am hoping to receive their payments early so that they could shop for groceries, however the day turned out to be a nightmare as the security allegedly did not allow them to stand in shady areas, instructing the pensioners to follow the queue. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Theressa Pillay, who went to shop at the centre this morning said: “There was a line for the elderly and a separate line for shoppers. Pensioners were standing in the hot sun and were told to get up and follow the queue whenever they sat on the staircase to catch their breath. One elderly lady fainted and was assisted and given some water to drink by the other pensioners. The centre management did not seem to care.  She said: “Making people stand in long queues for hours will not eliminate the coronavirus but will actually spread the disease more because the line is made up of huge numbers  and nobody is standing 1.5 meters apart. We were being pushed and pulled like animals. Everyone was rubbing off each other. It was so chaotic. The centre management was just not interested in assisting anyone.” Pillay said she stood in the line from 7am and was only able to do her shopping at 13.30pm. “What’s more frustrating is that I was standing in the hot sun only to get inside the shop to find that the food prices have gone up. After standing in the line for almost the whole day I came out with not much. Can you imagine how much harder all of this is for our seniors who live off a their grants for the whole month. Its sad to witness what is happening to the elderly.  This is a bad time for everyone, how do we survive?” At other local centres grantees were standing in snake like queues until late in the afternoon. As per government’s announcement, the grant payments will continue until Tuesday, 31 March. Attempts by the Phoenix Tabloid to get the centre management to comment were unsuccessful at the time of posting online.