 EThekwini Municipality has implemented ways to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in public spaces and facilities. This, after President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement of a National State of Disaster and the prohibition of the gathering of more that 100 people. The mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda has issued restrictions to be enforced in public spaces as follows: • Swimming pools will be closed effective immediately for the duration of the school break and will reopen after Easter. • Beach bathing in all beaches is prohibited with immediate effect. Lifeguards will remain on duty to monitor and ensure safety. Law enforcement will be engaged to monitor those that do not adhere. Beaches are not closed but only swimming is prohibited. • Municipal libraries will be closed but the staff will be at work. • Functions at community halls will be limited to grouping of less than 100. Events where more than 100 people were expected have been cancelled. • During funerals, the community is encouraged to limit the number of mourners to family members only or to restrict the mourners to not more than 50 at the cemetery. Mourners should keep to burial time slots allocated to prevent delays in accessing the cemetery. • Museums will be closed to the public, but the staff will be at work. • The number of visitors will be restricted to less than 50 at a time at the Durban Art Gallery. School bookings will be restricted and only open after the Easter Holiday. • All events, cultural or departmental programmes are cancelled indefinitely. • The 7th Gospel Iconic Discovery competition is postponed, and new dates will be announced after Easter. • Access to parks will be monitored. Weddings and social gatherings are now suspended indefinitely. The city management team has been ordered to be vigilant and ensure that safety measures, including but not limited to hand sanitizer, wet wipes, continuous cleaning of public spaces and educating of public continues in municipal facilities. • Of the estimated 590 informal settlements (approximately 240 000 families) in eThekwini, 294 (130 000 households) have access to clean running water and washing facilities through the Communal Ablution Blocks which have already been provided. The municipality will provide water storage tanks in all informal settlements where no communal ablution facilities exist. These will be filled by mobile water tankers. Installation of liquid soap dispensers and hand sanitizers at communal ablution facilities in informal settlements and transit facilities. Additional water points will be installed at all 2 200 communal ablution facilities. Consumer education teams and project liaison officers will be embarking on awareness campaigns and distribution of posters and pamphlets encouraging preventative measures. • There are 91 people remaining in four mass care centers (victims of storm disaster). All facilities have access to water and ablutions. Soap, sanitisers and education materials will be provided. • Hand sanitisers will be provided in the 10 communal residential units (hostels). These will be installed in bathrooms and access points and regularly filled by cleaning staff. There will be ongoing sanitation and cleaning of facilities to ensure hygiene for the 181 000 occupants. Consumer education teams and project liaison officers will be embarking on awareness campaigns and distribution of posters and pamphlets encouraging preventative measures. • Hand sanitisers will be provided at entrances to all rental stock. There will be ongoing sanitation and cleaning of facilities to ensure hygiene. • The Municipality has 25 Taxi Ranks across the city and it has already engaged with stakeholders within the industry to create awareness and bring alignment on measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The following actions have been planned and some being commissioned; – The Taxi Industry is already distributing sanitisers to commuters. The Municipality has improved cleaning of ablution facilities within taxi ranks to include sanitisers and ensuring that they are continuously disinfected. – Bus operators will be procuring and installing hand sanitiser holders in buses. The drivers will receive gloves,masks and individual sanitisers. – The Municipality is installing Jojo tanks and standpipes at taxi ranks to increase the availability of water. The water war -room that was established a few weeks ago to deal with thechallenge of water supply in communities has been instructedto increase the frequency of water supply, particularly in areas where water is supplied by water tankers. • The Markets are still operating. Bulk market, retail markets and flea markets are viewed in a similar manner like the shopping malls. • The response plan implemented in conjunction with the Occupational Health and Safety to minimise the transmission of the virus at the bulk market are as follows: – Entry and exit introduced gloves at Cashiers -implementation– Commenced the process to acquire sanitising wipes/sprays. – Upon receipt hereof, will be used by buyers entering the various sales hall entrances.– Agents encouraged to implement various measures within their agencies. Two agents have already introduced sanitisers on the sales floor and the other two agents are in the process of finalising implementation.– Appropriate awareness presentation was conducted byOccupational Health & Safety Unit for both Market and Market Agents staff.– Restriction of the number of buyers entering the banking hall • The following measures were implemented regarding Informal Trade:– Sanitisers introduced at all Informal Trader offices.– Staff conducting inspections wear gloves and masks.• In respect to retail markets and flea markets, sanitisers will be introduced for all staff, the privately managed flea markets like the Amphitheatre have already purchased and placed hand sanitisers in washrooms. Stall holders will have one at each stall for themselves and their clients.• The Municipality will embark on an intensive community activation programme in all 110 wards through loud hailing and distribution of educational material to curb the spread of the virus. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> “The lives of our residents will always be our priority and under no circumstances shall we take chances. The address by our president gave us a clear directive and under my stewardship, the city must comply. Failure to do this could result in us having more cases of the infection and would be antithetical to the position taken by our government in this regard. I therefore urge everyone to ensure that these measures are adhered to without fail,” said Kaunda. The mayor said that the municipality banking halls and Sizakala centres will remain open, however the city will ensure that high levels of hygiene prevail and that the number of people going to the centres will be managed. “Residents are urged to make use of the electronic systems of payment to pay their accounts where possible,” concluded the mayor. Customers can access their utility bills on the following link: http://www.durban.gov.za/Online_Tools/Pages/eAccount_Registration.aspx Enquiries can be made at the customer service helpline on 031 324 5000. Office Hours are Monday to Friday: 07:30 to 16:30 and Saturdays: 07:30 to 11:30