Spending four days, ‘trekking’ through rocky terrain at Monks Cowl in Drakensberg, in search of missing Jonathan Mackenzie, this past week, was a celebration for the search party when Mackenzie was found by local hikers in the Drakensberg area on Friday, 20 MarchHe was found in a good condition and in good spirits. The team was made up of K9 Search and Rescue officers, Sgt Stanley Holloway K9 Ira from Newcastle, Warrant officer Romel Da Rosa and K9 Bear from Port Shepstone, who led another search party made up of Okhahlamba volunteer officials and Bergville SAPS into Emtsheni, Bergville area, up towards Albert Falls. As the news of Mackenzie broke, teams were already making their way up along the hike in search of 31-year-old Shaping Shabalala. According to Shabalala’s family, they take the dangerous route to cross over to Lesotho. “We usually make this journey once a month and never alone, but he decided to make his way alone to Lesotho,” said family members, who had hoped that police and search parties could bring some closure. It is reported that Shabalala had gone missing at the beginning of March, but family knew that he was crossing along the footpath and only notified police, when they realized that he had not reached his destination. K9 officers said that crossing the border by using the Drakensberg,  is extremely dangerous, as the path heading up the mountains becomes so narrow, that a person is literally hanging on by the finger tips as they tip toe across a small ridge. The group of searchers, have already made up over 25km search and added another 10km searching the hiking route. The hike trail was filled with local hikers as search teams warned hikers to be careful not wander too far away from the path and rather use the marked path to reach their destination. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> The path which the family thought would be the only way for Shaping to follow, was searched. During the search, police also created awareness and spoke to hikers to be vigilant and safe along the route, due to the fact that so many still use alternative routes across the Drakensberg into South Africa. K9 Ira and K9 Bear worked side by side, as they followed up smells in drenched rocky areas including searching along water surfaces along the route. Pieces of clothing and shoes were found, but according to family, these items did not belong to Shabalala. It was also reported that Ezemvelo Wildlife officials tried to search the area in the hope of finding Shabalala. With bad weather being reported that search was called off and the group headed down. Bergville Police explained that they will continue with the search locally. Despite borders being closed due to Covid-19, people are still making their way in and out of South Africa, by utilizing alternative routes that is usually life threatening. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Police have warned hikers in the area, to ensure that people inform others of their whereabouts and to not wander off the path. “The Drakensberg is a dangerous place and all precautions should be followed. Do not blindly go in, even if you think you know the area,” concluded the police. Also Read: