The MEC for EDTEA, Nomusa Dube-Ncube in her capacity as the District Champion met members of the Uthukela District Covid-19 Command Centre this morning, (Monday, 30 March) to be briefed on the status of the coronavirus (Covid-19) in the district. The briefing was held at the Council Chamber of the Alfred Duma municipality in Ladysmith. The district mayor, Councillor Siphiwe Mazibuko and Dr T Zulu from Uthukela District Health, Alfred Duma Speaker Councillor Ngubane, EXCO members and both municipal managers led the team comprising various stakeholders. During the discussion, concern was raised about the reported case of a person who passed away, after contracting the virus from outside the town and of another patient who failed to quarantine himself after learning about his status. The Covid-19 tests are being done through the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital where the process is much quicker. According to Dr Zulu the lockdown has a negative effect in terms of conducting public awareness campaigns. The MEC expressed concern about people’s behaviour  and the complete disregard of the lockdown.  She said once a large number of people have contracted this virus it will put unnecessary strain on the health system because of ignorance. “The President wants everyone from the ward level upwards to account for their actions. We need to ensure that our people have all the necessities to deal with this virus effectively,” said Dube-Ncube. SASSA, represented by Mr Singh, outlined their action plan in relation to the payment of grants. He said that they have engaged with SAPO to make payment machines available. He then raised concerns about inadequate access control at some of the supermarkets and social distancing at vendors. After the briefing, the team visited various pay points to see if they complied with the requirements and also to raise awareness about the pandemic by distributing pamphlets and engaging the public. SAPO and other banking institutions were found to be fully compliant. Ladysmith Murchison Street had become a buzz of activities, as people flocked into the main streets to collect their grants and pensions. Others also made their way to the shopping centres to purchase food during the lock down. The Ladysmith Post offices and banks in the area had placed chairs in front, forcing people to adhere to the social distancing rule, while waiting to collect their money. A woman who had been waiting in line took the information pamphlet from the official and made herself a mask. Alfred Duma and Uthukela District municipalities assisted with additional chairs to some of the pay points. The mayor also addressed the people about the importance of social distancing, the effects of Covid-19 and to communicate that they were out there to assess and to assist during the payment of the grants.