Grant recipients and the public at large took advantage of the relaxation of working hours for public transport today (Monday) and flocked to banks and supermarkets to shop and collect their grant payouts. On Sunday, Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula announced the ammendment to the public transport directions under the National State of Disaster.  Minister Mbalula said that under the current lockdown aimed at slowing the spread of COVID-19, public modes of transport are allowed to operate from 5am – 9am and again from 4pm – 8pm but as of today Monday 30 March, until Friday, 3 April, buses and taxis will be permitted to operate from 5am until 8pm in order to cater to the transportation needs of society’s most vulnerable. “Following the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on the days social grants would be paid, a number of industry bodies have made representations on the relaxation of hours in which public transport vehicles are allowed to operate,”said Mbalula on Sunday. He said that a similar request to relax the hours was made by the Minister of Social Development, Lindiwe Zulu. “Having considered Minister Zulu’s request and representations made by various industry bodies, including the taxi industry, I have decided to amend the Public Transport Directions in order to accommodate grant beneficiaries,” said Mbalula. Earlier this month, the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) said it would pay social grants to older persons and persons with disabilities from 30 and 31 March 2020, while other beneficiaries will be able to access their grants from 1 April 2020. The social security agency’s decision to pay grants earlier is in response to the State of National Disaster, as announced by President Ramaphosa on 15 March 2020. A grant recipient in KwaMashu said that he was happy that the minister made provisions for them however, concerned about social distancing in the que. “I think queues are a waste of time as people are not keeping to the rule of social distancing. I have been waiting in the queue for more than an hour without anything to protect myself. I dont feel safe at all, I wish there was a better way to prevent people an influx of people on queues, only the banks and supermarkets staff are protected as they are adhering to the rules.” Mbalula urged those using public transport to observe social distancing. Grant recipients are required to carry their IDs and SASSA cards when travelling on public transport to assist law enforcement efforts. Members of the community are urged to avoid visiting the supermarkets and stores during the next few days, to allow grant beneficiaries the opportunity to collect their grant and do their shopping to stock up on essential goods.