Following the national government state of disaster announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on the 15 March in response to the coronavirus pandemic, schools closed early this week. The early school closure will strike a heavy knock on the academic year, which the department intends on rectifying by cutting a week off the June holidays. Tabloid Newspapers took to the streets to find out how people felt about the closure of schools during the COVID-19 pandemic. Vadhini MunienI do think that the closure of schools is outrageous. It is understandable that the pupils should avoid crowded places as a necessary precaution but this will directly impact their academic careers. They will have to work harder than necessary to meet the next terms’ requirement and the half yearly exams are about the most important exams for matrics this year. All I can foresee is that they will have a backlog in their syllabus resulting in possible longer hours in school, which will have a terrible impact on their mental health.Mqondisi Myeni On the possibility of having one’s children unsupervised at home while they are at work will not be pleasing to parents. They know the extent of vulnerability that they will now have to put their kids through and it would be almost impossible for parents to take all major measures to avoid every risk of their child getting infected when they are alone at home.Camille BonkAllowing kids to go to school aids the spread of the virus. Closing of schools are a requirement as it will help keep the uninfected, healthy, and those infected from passing on the virus. Although it may be a stretch for working parents to accommodate these measures put in place by the government, it is more than necessary, in fact it is imperative for South Africans to promote self quarantine even if they feel the slightest onset of a cold. Tevin LukhrajParents are worried and unsettled at work knowing that they are away from their kids during the day, who are possibly unsupervised as a result of the short notice given to make alternate arrangements. As a father, I’d be stressing all day knowing that my son is at home without me there to take care of all the major risk factors regarding COVID-19.Shwaitha LaljithGiven the presidential announcement regarding the closure of schools has definitely added pressure onto parents in terms of home care for kids because it was so unexpected. Parents are now on the verge of crumbling while making arrangements for their children. Sadly, unsupervised kids will now be left unattended which makes them more prone to injuries and unwanted situations. Also read: