Scores of pensioners have gathered in their numbers across Durban and surrounding areas since the crack of dawn this morning to collect their monthly social grants.  The caution to maintain social distance has been foregone as snaking queues could be seen at various pension payout points with the elderly painstakingly waiting for their cash. Some of the aged donned masks in a bid to protect themselves during this Covid-19 outbreak but the majority were seen unprotected. Police and security personnel have been urged to monitor such gatherings in an attempt to maintain crowd control. Spokesperson for PT Alarms security company, Dhevan Govindasamy, said, “PT Alarms Tactical and Response units are on high alert in and around Durban during this pension payout period. The elderly are out in large numbers and sadly they standing in long queues with barely any distance between them.” He added, “We have already received a call for assistance and visibility at the Lotus Park boomgate where it was reported that an elderly male was just robbed after receiving his social grant. Criminals are ruthless and it is pathetic that they strike at the vulnerable in such times. “PT Alarms units will be on patrol in the various areas to help ensure the safety of the elderly during this trying period,” Govindasamy said. Meanwhile, Minister of Transport, Fikile Mbalula, announced that effective from today, Monday, 30 March until Friday, 3 April, buses and taxis will be permitted to operate from 5am until 8pm in order to cater to the transportation needs of society’s most vulnerable during pension payout. He expressed that the exercise of social distance by all those using public transport must be observed and enforced. Grant recipients are required to carry their identity documents and South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) cards when travelling on public transport, to assist law enforcement efforts. In Phoenix, the following post was shared on the KZN VIP Phoenix Crimewatch Facebook page: Pensioners Procedure at Phoenix Plaza :  In order to keep our community safe, we are working together with Shoprite to make sure all health protocols are being followed. Please ensure that you are using your gloves and a mask in order to comply with the National recommendations. Only one person per family and no children will be allowed. Pensioners coming to collect their pension must ensure that they are using a mask and gloves. Only those collecting Older Persons Grant and Disability Grants will be allowed to collect their funds on 30 and 31 March. Available from 1 April  will be :-• Care Dependency Grant• Child Support Grant• War Veterans Grant• Social Relief of Distress• Disability Grant• Older Persons GrantEach person will be spaced accordingly to ensure that social distancing is being practiced. KZN VIP spokesperson, Glen Naidoo, said, “We are working with police to maintain stability and order during this payout period in the wake of the national lockdown.  We want to ensure that the vulnerable are taken care of without the crisis in our country spiralling out of control.” “KZN VIP has pledged our support to heed the president’s call during the lockdown and have provided all our resources to assist police in keeping our streets safe,” added Naidoo.