Private healthcare service providers have partnered with the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health to avail their hospital wards and beds, free of charge, in the event of a large-scale outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the province. This, after KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Ms Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu recently engaged with various sectors of society – from the clergy, to the diplomatic corps, organised labour, traditional leaders, the taxi industry, and media editors – with the aim of heightening awareness about coronavirus, as well as how to face up to its projected impact. These engagements also focused on how the virus can be prevented; its symptoms, and what those who exhibit them need to do. The private healthcare practitioners agreed to put the country first and lend a hand in the fight against the coronavirus. MEC Simelane-Zulu said the partnership with the private healthcare sector was a boon to the Department’s own ongoing efforts to increase capacity, as it continues to reconfigure and modify ordinary hospital wards into isolation wards throughout the province. The MEC described the gesture as a moving display of patriotism at an unprecedented time in the history of South Africa, while also urging others to follow suit. So far, the groups that have partnered with the Department are Royal Hospital, Midlands Medical, Mediclinic, Akeso, Daymed, Netcare, Nurture, Umhlanga, Cheshire Sub-acute, Hibiscus, and Busamed. The Department will handle the human resources and, where required, the health technology (equipment) as part of the partnership. Simelane-Zulu said: “The intention and request had been to get them to avail beds that can be utilised by the Department of Health should the need arise. I’m extremely happy, and really appreciate the spirit that those who are running private facilities have evidenced. The majority of them expressed their willingness to give us beds. We’re very happy with that engagement. We call on all the rest of the private sector to ensure that they also play their part in assisting government to deal with this particular virus, ” She said that the beds are going to be free of charge and that engagements will be held regarding the human resources, and equipment because some of the facilities are empty, and have not been equipped. ” So, we’re going to have discussions on how those will be staffed and equipped. But, should those be equipped by the Department of Health, the equipment will still belong to the Department. At the end of this pandemic, they will have to be returned to the facilities of the Department,” said Simelane-Zulu. Simelane-Zulu said that she appreciated the sense of patriotism that the private sector is showing. ” It tells you that you’ve got people who understand their responsibility as business people but also to work with Government, and I think that’s the most important part. Beyond this, we’ve agreed with the sector that we’re going to continue working together, so that moving forward we’re able to assist our people together,” said Simelane-Zulu.