Despite the calls for stability within Ladysmith and the surrounding areas, it seems that the entire area is still in the grip lock of an total shutdown, with Umbubano Lothula Organisation and the Klipriver Taxi Association saying that the protests will continue. As part of government’s intervention to resolve the ongoing protests that is causing disruptions to the town of Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal premier, Sihle Zikalala led a high-level delegation to the town today, (Tuesday 10 March). During the three closed door meetings held, Premier Zikalala, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli, and MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs,  Nomusa Dube-Ncube met with local leadership and senior government officials. The premier also engaged various stakeholders in Ladysmith, including business, security cluster and protesters throughout the day. 
 
It is believed that during one of the meetings Umbubano Lothula Organisation and the Klipriver Taxi Association and members of other political parties walked out. It was reported that Umbubano Lothula, Dr Adile Hlatshawayo had asked the KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala to get rid of the mayor. When this could not be answered the group stood up and walked out. Umbubano Lothula Organisation and the Klipriver Taxi Association said that they will continue with the total shutdown. “I’m disappointed about the protocol of the meeting that was followed as some of the political parties could not gain access to the meeting.  They were only allowed access to the meeting when Umbubano Lothula Organisation invited them,” said Councillor Abbas Warasally. At the media briefing, Premier Zikalala said that law enforcement will be strengthened in the area and they will work with local councillors and the municipality to get Ladysmith up and running. it was said that the Ladysmith town has lost over 100 million rand due to the numerous shut downs recently experienced. The Mayor of Alfred Duma Municipality, Councillor Vincent Madlala said that he is not going anywhere, as the serious allegations made against him is not true. “Premier Sihle Zikalala will start an investigation into the serious allegations made. Im not guilty of anything, but I am doing my job,” said the mayor. This morning residents awoke to burning trucks, blocked roads and a half empty police station. The on-going protest action which commenced last month has since intensified. During the late hours of last night (9 March), several trucks were set alight by protesters as routes were closed. The main Ezakheni water plant was also shut down by protesters, leaving residents with no water. It is not clear how long the water will be shut down for and the roads that were reported closed this morning are still closed. The high level delegation said that they will work to make sure that Ladysmith is up and running in the next two days.