The alleged owner (53) of a mask-manufacturing business is to appear in court today, Monday 30 March, after police and government officials from the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA) arrested and charged the man for contravening regulations under the Disaster Management Act when 14 employees were rescued from a factory in Glen Anil yesterday (Sunday, 29 March) since being locked in from last Monday. MEC for the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs and leader of government business, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, said she had received a complaint and had sent a team of officials to investigate further when the shocking discovery was made. “This is in connection with more than 14 employees who have been locked up in a factory since Monday last week. They were forced to manufacture hundreds of masks to meet the demand caused by the outbreak of the coronavirus. We are encouraged by messages of public disapproval of the blatant disregards of the laws of the country by the owners of a Chinese company Chen Lu located in Glen Anil, Durban,” Dube-Ncube said. “The owner of the factory has been arrested and inspectors from the Department of Employment and Labour are conducting an investigation. This is in relation to the violation of the Conditions of Employment; and Occupational and Safety Act.  
Inspectors from the department’s Consumer Protection Unit, who are investigating complaints of the violation of consumer rights and price hikes, have saved more than 14 workers who were subjected to inhuman conditions,” she added. Dube-Ncube applauded labour inspectors and members of the South African Police Services for working with officials to restore the dignity of the workers. The workers are currently being transported by SAPS to various townships in the Greater Durban area. “Critically, I wish to condemn security guards for harassing and pointing automatic rifles at our officials.  I have implored law enforcement agencies to investigate this company. Importantly, they must ascertain whether a Chinese national, who was carrying an automatic rifle and harassing government officials, has the necessary permit. He must also be charged for defeating the ends of justice,” Dube-Ncube added. “During our unannounced visits to various retail shops and pharmacies, we discovered that members of the public are forced to pay up to R780, 00 (seven hundred and eighty rand) for one mask. I wish to reiterate that our position as the department has not changed. We will continue to enforce our zero-tolerance policy towards price gougers who are using the coronavirus outbreak to sell much-needed food and other products at inflated prices,” she said. “Turning a blind eye to these injustices will be tantamount to the abdication of our mandate as public representatives. This government is the only hope for millions of the people of KwaZulu-Natal during this difficult period. I undertake not to betray them. A team of experienced officials from the department are on standby to investigate complaints regarding excessive pricing and violation of consumer rights,” said Dube-Ncube. Police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo confirmed the arrest of the man in the Glen Anil crackdown and said that the suspect’s health was under assessment as swabs were retrieved from him. According to Brig Naidoo the suspect will appear in court today (Monday). Members of public who may have complaints about price hiking and wish to blow the whistle on perpetrators can Email: Consumer.Complaints@kznedtea.gov.za or 
Whatsapp: 082 458 0706 or 082 374 6660.