Capturing hearts and changing lives is what Mano Singh, CEO of World Wrestling Superstars does best. He had the youth eating out of his hand at the Rumble in SA wrestling event which took place at Sibaya Casino, on 26 and 28 February. Mano, who is passionate about professional wrestling and making a difference in the lives of young people did not disappoint when he kept his word and captured the hearts of the youth at the wrestling event. The packed audience which comprised of a mixture of young and old interacted well and participated in the show, voicing their ire and their delight as the wrestlers enthralled. Whilst the older fans were wowed by the likes of Tiger Singh, the youth found themselves drawn to the energy exuded by two young and upcoming wrestlers. Gurshinder Singh and CJ Gold (The first Black South African woman wrestler). Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers Mano said: “A successful event was held with the start of a new beginning of a new decade, with the birth of new ideas. We have raised the bar with plans to take wrestling to a different height in South Africa and in Africa. South Africa has world class talent and our wrestlers can compete with international wrestlers. “ We need to revive the goal of bringing champions back home. No one person can execute these events. The media, fans, wrestlers and promoters like myself, make a combination and a chain which is as strong as its weakest link. We had wonderful support from the media and fans – an ingredient for success. My heartfelt thanks go to Tabloid Newspapers for supporting the sport of wrestling,” said Mano, Mano advised that wrestling can help create a better society with young people viewing the wrestlers as role models and desiring to get involved with the sport. He said that the self-discipline wrestling teaches can lead to a better nation. Mano said: “We want our local communities to take advantage of wrestling events and get involved. Black woman in SA have not been exposed to the sport. Its now in the local market. CJ Gold, is a talented and upcoming, young superstar. She will do well in the future. Her dedication to training will go a long way, “ said Mano. Speaking to Tabloid Media, Tiger Singh said that he enjoyed Rumble and hopes that Mano is successful at building up wrestling in Africa. He said: “The locals tried to copy what they see on TV. I think they are far better wrestlers than what we saw. Gurshunder is a young and upcoming wrestler with potential. He is still learning and has a long way to go. He’s gonna make it to the top,” said Tiger. Tiger said that he gives talks at seminars on wrestling and health issues like diabetes, stroke and heart. Sharing the similar vision is Mano who is steering the youth on the African continent to be more health conscience and disciplined through the sport of wrestling. The results were as follows: 28 February 26 February