As part of government’s intervention to resolve the ongoing protests  that is causing disruptions to the town of Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala will lead a high-level delegation to the town today, 10 March, to address the impasse. This morning residents awoke to burning trucks, blocked roads and a half empty police station. The on-going protest action which commenced last month has since intensified. It is believed that the Ladysmith Police Station has become ‘ghosted’ as some police officers and staff could not reach the police station this morning. ” No members or workers are at work. It’s bad. There are four community service members only,” said a member of the community, who had gone into the station this morning, to get copies certified. The member of the community told the Ladysmith Herald, that this is not what a station should look like. The person who wishes to remain anonymous said: “What happens if we need the police, this is so scary?” During the late hours of last night (9 March), several trucks were set alight by protesters as routes were closed. The main Ezakheni water plant was also shut down by protesters, leaving residents with no water. Most schools are closed. ‘I don’t know how the morning will go but one also can’t be dictated by a few, we need to say no more interruption in our education and economy and I say this with respect, from someone who truly is scared for their life. The threat is real. The mayor is wrong on so many levels. It is a threat to our local economy, to the education of our kids and to our right to live the way we want,” said a parent, who is struggling to make the choice whether to send her children to school or not. The high level delegation will include MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mr Bheki Ntuli, and MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Ms Nomusa Dube-Ncube, local leadership and senior government officials. As part of the interventions, the premier will engage various stakeholders in Ladysmith, including business, security cluster and protesters. “The situation cannot be allowed to continue unabated hence we are coming closer as government to engage with all affected stakeholders. The current protest is affecting business and the economy of all small towns relying on Ladysmith as an important corridor. Our interest is to ensure that there is stability in the province. We cannot allow Ladysmith to regress on the work done. Once again, we appeal for calm and request protesters to engage peacefully,” said Zikalala. Roads opened: R616 to Bergville, N11 to Newcastle is opened, but can change at any moment. Roads blocked: R103 to Harrismith, R103 to Colenso, Protea Drive, Acaciavale, Multiple roads leaving Ezakheni, Pieters Road at Ezakheni, Umbulwane, Beaufort, St Chads by Lindas Tavern, Peacetown, Hopsland. This is a developing story and updates will follow as events unfold.