This weekend saw the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli and MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA), Nomusa Dube-Ncube hold high level talks with various stakeholders to discuss the recent protest action and the impact on the economy. Despite these meetings Ladysmith was once again thrown into a Monday-madness turmoil and uncertainty today, 9 March. According to information shared across various social media platforms, it was said that the protest action will continue until the Mayor of Alfred Duma, Vincent Madlala steps down. Threats of violence have been issued against businesses and business owners.  
Roads are again blocked in and out of Ladysmith – Protea drive, Smartiesville and main roads leading into Ezakheni and the Pieters/Colenso roads are a no go area. Schools such as Acaciavale and Ladysmith Secondary closed its doors, advising parents not to send their children to school. Various schools in the area are currently writing assessment tests for their term report. Public transport are not operating and most staff are not heading to work this morning. In the weekend meetings MEC Bheki Ntuli reassured stakeholders that government was committed to finding lasting peace and stability in Ladysmith following violent protests recently. He said that since the start of the protest action, business operations have been significantly impacted in the town which led to irrecoverable financial losses. MEC Ntuli held a Stakeholders’ Engagement Meeting at the uThukela District Municipality Council Chamber on Friday (6 March) with community representatives from Ubumbano Lokuthula Organisation, taxi industry stakeholders and members from the Ladysmith Chamber of Commerce and Industry, to update them on the latest developments aimed at finding peaceful solutions. “We have increased the number of specialised police units such as Public Order Police and Tactical Response Teams in the area to ensure that our people are safe. Our primary goal as the provincial government is to end violence and ensure lasting peace and stability in Ladysmith. The South African Police Service will maintain high visibility and arrest those involved in criminal acts,” said MEC Ntuli. MEC Ntuli also indicated that the on going protest action has had a negative impact on the economy of Ladysmith. “According to reports from businesses, the protest action and total shutdown of Ladysmith resulted in loss of revenue of over R100 million, this is a clear indication that we all have to work together and resolve this ongoing impasse and bring life back to normal for the benefit of all,” said MEC Ntuli. MEC Ntuli said he would continue engaging all stakeholders with the view of finding a lasting solution and called on all concerned parties to play their part in working towards ensuring peace and stability in Ladysmith. KZN EDTEA, MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube had a meeting the following day, (7 March), with uThukela District mayors and the uThukela district house of traditional leaders. In what has been colloquially termed by the media #SiegeOfLadysmith2020 saw the town descending into chaos, plunging into turmoil and totally shutting down, impacting adversely on businesses. “We have been very concerned with the situation in Ladysmith especially in the age of scarce jobs where we saw thriving businesses closing its doors. In October last year, we were in uThukela discussing with the local chamber the solutions to bring back businesses, retain the existing and attracting new businesses in town, said Dube-Ncube. Meanwhile, the Ubumbano Lokuthula Organisation has said that they are not happy with the outcome of the meetings held over the weekend and if the mayor does nor resign by the end of today (9 March) the protests will not stop.