Humanitarian and activist, Dr Faisal Suliman embodies the characteristics of a fair leader and community activist. Dr Suliman services the community by not only taking care of their medical needs, but their day to day needs as well, as the chairperson of the South African Muslim Network (SAMNET).The Springfield Weekly Gazette had the honour of finding out more about this influential community leader. SWG: As a medical doctor by profession, what do you specialise in?FS: I am a family practitioner also known as a GP but the term GP is misleading. We deal with families as disease does not affect one person, it affects families. Diseases are not entities on their own, they affect people. So I think it is more correct to refer to us as family doctors. During the apartheid era, choices were very limited for people of colour. Spaces were also limited. Medicine has always been a popular career choice amongst Indians and more so when the options were much narrower.SWG: What were the challenges that you faced when deciding to pursue a career in the medical field?FS: My biggest challenge was funding. I come from very humble backgrounds so it was always a concern even during matric, how I would fund my studies. Fortunately, I received some bursaries and I was able to complete my studies.SWG: How did you become a part of SAMNET and what is your role in the organisation?FS: A group of community thought leaders and activists came together and I was one of them in 2007. We looked at how an organisation, that bridged a gap between theologians, the many relief organisations in a changing society and political landscape, would be able to focus on advocacy, research, public relations and politics. This is how SAMNET was conceptualised and I have been chairperson since 2008.SWG: Are there any community projects that you’re involved in at the moment?FS: SAMNET has a social welfare division called the Caring Sisters Network, which does an enormous amount of social welfare projects. They are very much an organisation of their own even though they are the social welfare arm of SAMNET. SAMNET itself gets involved in daily activities relating to media and public relations. There are constant complaints about Muslims facing discrimination, particularly women in the workplace in regards to their dress code, which SAMNET gets involved in. The National Mosque Open Day is another project initiated by SAMNET in which mosques are open on Heritage Day, a public holiday, to all South Africans. This has grown to the point where interest has come from surrounding countries as well to look at similar campaigns. It is a wonderful way of building bridges and getting rid of misconceptions between Muslims and people of other faith groups.SWG: How do you juggle the roles being a doctor and a community activist? FS: Time is always the enemy of anyone who wants to do more than one thing. It is a difficult task to get involved in a full time practice as well as community projects that are time consuming. I have been blessed by a wife who compensates for me at home for my absence at home with the children and with chores. She has made it easy for me to be able to do many other things particularly after hours.SWG: Your best holiday destination?FS: A Muslim will always find solace in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina of Saudi Arabia and Al Quds of Palestine, especially the holy mosque, as often as possible because that is where spiritual healing takes place. In addition to those three places, I like East London very much. I think we must not underestimate the beauty of our own coastline and our warm waters. I enjoy being on the beach.SWG: What do you prefer doing in your leisure time?FS: I like playing golf. I am not very good at it but it allows me a few hours of distraction and some good exercise and getting a walk done early in the morning. I am passionate about reading and I enjoy the occasional watching of television, which has become a big part of our lives whether for news or relaxation.SWG: Favourite quote? FS: ‘O you who believe! Stand out firmly for justice, as witnesses to God, even as against yourselves, or your parents, or your kin, and whether it be (against) rich or poor.’ Holy Quran 4:135SWG: Tastiest dish? FS: Aknee which is a rice and curry dish.SWG: What are the qualities, you believe, a leader should have to accurately fulfil their duties?FS: Integrity and people management skills.