Cornubia residents took to the streets calling for a serious intervention by the eThekwini Municipality to install a pedestrian bridge on the busy R102 highway on Wednesday, 11 March. This follows an accident that involved a school pupil who tried to cross the highway to get to the other side and was knocked by a car on Monday, 9 March. The residents said that they were tired of the empty promises made by the ward councillor and were keen to continue with the protest if they were not heard. Responding to the angry protestors, the district manager under the Operation Sukuma Sakhe, Leonard Masinga, said the municipality is currently unaware of the situation, however, will take into consideration that the residents need a temporal pedestrian bridge. Speaking to Tabloid Newpapers Masinga said:  “I was sent by the city to come and hear what the issue in this ward was about since there has been burning of tyres and blocked roads that has caused traffic congestion which affected motorists this morning. What I can suggest to the residents is for them to choose people that will represent them to address their concerns. Once that has happened, we will then look into what can be done to address the issue. According to Community Committee member, Patric Phembela, the ward 102 councillor Siyabonga Thango knows about the issue of the pedestrian bridge and brought officials to address members of the community promising that a bridge will be installed. “I am very surprised that after two years we are still asking for a temporal pedestrian bridge which our councillor said will be implemented. What I have heard is that the project to install a temporal pedestrian bridge was rejected by the city but the local councillor failed to inform the residents. Over the years, children and adults have been knocked over while dodging traffic to get to school and to work,” said Phembela. “Clinics, schools and shops are in the Phoenix area, so residents are forced to cross the highway to get to the other side. Workers also have to cross the highway to catch public transport.  We are appealing  for the city to work together with the local councillor and the chosen committee members to find a way to transport school pupils for their own safety, ” added Phembela. Local resident, Armstrong Mkhize said that they are tired of the delays as it has nearly cost them an innocent life that is still in hospital fighting for her life. “Almost every month we witness a person being knocked down by a car on the same road, at the same spot, but there has been no action taken by the councillor and the city. On 4 March, there was another school pupil who was hit by a car but luckily survived. In November, there was also a resident who had tried to catch a taxi from across the highway but unfortunately was hit by a taxi and died. This seriously needs an intervention,” said Mkhize. Attempts to get a comment from the ward 102 councillor was unsuccessful.