Whilst businesses, SSME’s and the country as a whole await the address from President Cyril Ramaphosa tonight, Tabloid Media reporters Nohnlanhla Hlatshawayo and Bongekile Gumede visited some businesses in Durban just to find out how the pandemic of the virus has affected them and what measures have been put in place to ensure the safety of its clients and staff. uShaka Marine World marketing director and spokesperson Mpume Mabuza said since the presidents pronouncements last week, things have been tough for uShaka as a business and as a leisure park for the community. “We have been working closely with the municipality, various stakeholders, government, our tenants and tourism attraction industry and service providers. We have boasted our hygiene measures in terms of providing sanitizes at the major strategic points, we have made sure that we put together a hygiene team that will specifically make sure that the sanitisers are available at all the points. We are part of the whole bulk purchasing of masks and  thermometers are available. We have ensured that we have all the equipment that is needed at this point in time. We take the crisis pretty seriously, ” said Mabuza. She said over a week they have seen that foot traffic has dwindled by close to 90%, which affects revenue and foot fall, that is how the success of the business is measured. “We have a problem as our fixed cost remains the same, we still have to pay our employees and a majority of them are at home on leave because of the shutdown of majority of our parks, we have to also continue with maintaining our equipment, feed the 10 000 animals whether or not there are people coming to the park for the shows or not,” said Mabuza. Mabuza said 90% of the parks have been closed and only the aquarium is open to the public. “We are awaiting for the presidents announcement and thereafter we can make further decisions in consultation with our principals and the municipality in terms of what happens going forward,” Mabuza said. One of the tenants, an artist at uShaka, Ananias Mparadzi said business is really bad. Especially because they are not making money. ” We usually get tourists from outside the country and outside Durban to buy from us, however there is not much we can do,” said Mparadzi.