Government’s efforts to address the scourge of cross – border crime between South Africa and Mozambique has been bolstered by the start of the border control construction project that will curb the theft of motor vehicles and movement of illicit goods. The construction of the much awaited Modified New Jersey Barriers was presided over by the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mr Bheki Ntuli, who witnessed the installation of the first set of this concrete wall. The New Jersey Barriers will run a stretch of eight kilometers and will start from the boundary of Isimangaliso Wetlands Park moving to the western boundary of Tembe Elephant Park. After engaging with stakeholders today, MEC Ntuli led a site inspection to monitor the progress of the project. “We are satisfied that work has started. Judging by the enthusiasm from the team working on the installation of the Modified New Jersey Barriers, it is clear that the project will move with required speed. We are doing all we can as the provincial government to address the scourge of vehicle theft and other cross – border crimes. The movement of illicit goods and undocumented foreign nationals is another important issue that will be addressed by this intervention,” remarked Ntuli. The project is labour intensive as there are 40 locals from uMhlabuyalingana who have been empowered through work opportunities and skills development. The Modified New Jersey Barriers are manufactured locally in uMkhanyakude. The rampant vehicle theft challenge has prompted government to make number of interventions in the area, including upgrading Manguzi police station, increasing police vehicles, opening a mobile police station in Skhemelele area and increasing police deployments. The interventions have minimised the number of incidents however, the recent resurgence has been of concern from both government and the community of uMkhanyakude. Last week the Premier of the province, Mr Sihle Zikalala, visited the area after protesters embarked on violent protest action and shut down the economy of Jozini and Mhlabuyalingana. After Premier Zikalala’s meeting, all bottlenecks were unlocked, including issues that needed to be addressed with the National government. MEC Ntuli assured stakeholders that government will continue to work with them in addressing crime and in dismantling the vehicle theft syndicates. “We must continue to work together in addressing the criminal elements in our communities. Government will play its part and we urge the people of this area to work with us to ensure that perpetrators of cross-border crimes are brought to book,” added MEC Ntuli. The Department of Transport has deployed a team of senior officials that are continuously monitoring the Modified New Jersey Barriers project implementation plan.