Community based organisation eThekwini Secure and its affiliates the Active Citizens Coalition and eThekwini Outreach say that they are ready to take the challenges to assist the community in the face of the South Africa’s first-ever lockdown. The organisation set up a WhatsApp “Covid-19 war room” as soon as news of the novel coronavirus broke several weeks ago. This was to ensure that all communities in KwaZulu-Natal get the most accurate and verified information about the virus. Imtiaz Syed, eThekwini Secure chairperson said that this was an important exercise as there was a wealth of misinformation and hoaxes circulating on social media. “Our brief is simple: It is all about networking in KZN and across the rest of South Africa. We need to be careful about the information that we receive on WhatsApp groups. This raises unnecessary panic among the people and that only means that we have to then do damage control and allay their fears,” said Syed. The organisation has a team of volunteers in the background working constantly in the war room to sift through information. Syed said that when information is verified accurately it is then disseminated on all social media platforms. “We have a team of doctors in the background that helps in the war room. This empowers us to in turn empower, and enable, the community who have unexpectedly been dealt the coronavirus blow,” he said. Syed said that the lockdown announced by president Cyril Ramaphosa was expected. He said that with the number of increasing cases of people being tested positive for Covid-19, his concern was the people who did not have access to health care and other essentials. “What are the people in informal settlements going to do? How do we combat the spread of the virus in the settlements and how do we expect them to practice social distancing,” said Syed. He said that more focus on the well-being of families in informal settlements must be had. “The informal settlements are literally on our doorsteps. We as a community must address sustainable solutions to help them. And the government must not ignore their needs,” he said. “How do we expect people living under adverse conditions to continuously wash their hands when they have no running water?” Syed said that he was also concerned about casual labourers who rely on daily or weekly wages to make a living. “The 21-day lockdown is going to affect them tremendously. There are no contingency plans for them. How do we as a collective look after them, like our domestic workers, for example?” he said. eThekwini Secure’s partner, eThekwini Outreach, has in the meanwhile initiated the collection of basic essentials for people who do not what is necessary to help combat the spread of the virus. Outreach chairperson, Nasrin Kadwa said they are collecting anti-bacterial soap, bottled water, latex gloves, sanitsers and masks. Kadwa said that these items will be “packaged” and distributed to areas that need it most. “We do understand that while there is a huge need on our doorstep, the little that we can do can undoubtedly makes a difference to the few. We can flatten the curve and stop the virus. As a community we need to take responsibility and be an active citizen in this fight against a global pandemic,” said Kadwa. Syed, who is also the chairperson of the eThekwini Central Cluster Community Police Forum, said that what is most important is that people do not panic. “What we are seeing is that people are going into panic mode and are stockpiling groceries and other items. I am saying, do not panic. You are not told that you cannot go to the shops to buy essentials. You can still do this,” he said. He added that while he has had some queries about a possible spike in crime, mostly by “petty” thieves, the police will be on alert and that the CPF and its partners were still available to address crime. “All our WhatsApp platforms will remain active with updates. Nothing will stop. Residents are encouraged to remain vigilant and must still report and threats or danger. Always phone the 10111 number first,” added Syed. If you would like to support the cause and fight against Covid-19, the drop off point is the Shell Select on the corner of South Rd, opposite The Atrium. For more info call Nasrin on 083-786-5113 or Melissa on 081-300-3492. Also read: