Waterloo residents in Phase 6, were left shocked and saddened after a 34-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping two minors on Saturday, 29 February. Captain Henry Kisten, Verulam SAPS spokesperson, confirmed the arrest. He said they were investigating two counts of rape after the father of three children allegedly raped his 11-year-old step-sister and her eight-year-old friend, over a period of two weeks at a residence in the area. “It was established that the suspect who resides in a block of flats behind Waterloo Spar arrived at his step father’s house to visit his step-sister. Her parents were attending a wedding and left her in the care of a neighbour,” he said. Kisten said the step-sister informed the neighbour that she did not want to be left alone with her step-brother because she believed that he intended on raping her again. “When questioned further by the neighbour, the victim revealed that the suspect had on several occasions fondled and raped her and her friend who lives in the area,” he said. Kisten added that the suspect was arrested after a mob of angry residents gathered outside his home. Nokuphila Zakwe, a resident, said she was very shocked and saddened by the incident. She said: “It was the first time such an incident occurred in our area. I do not want to lie to you, the residents are angry at the suspect.” Prem Balram of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said at approximately 01.05pm on Saturday, their members were dispatched to the property after a mob threatened to kill the man. He said: “Upon arrival, members found some individuals within the mob armed with cane knives, golf clubs and empty bottles baying for the blood of the accused. Members entered the residence and placed the suspect under arrest. He was handed over to police for further investigation.” However, Balram explained that the neighbour approached the eight-year-old victim’s mother who stated that the child was complaining of severe pains to her genital area for nearly two weeks. “When they questioned the victim, she claimed that the suspect had arrived at her friend’s home two weeks ago while they were playing in the yard. He led them to the back of the property  where he undressed and began kissing them before he asked them to face the wall and raped them behind a tree,” he said. Balram added that the victims also claimed that the suspect had penetrated them on three different occasions since the initial rape.