Dedicated police work coupled with meticulous investigation culminated into the arrest of two suspects resulting in a family run fraud syndicate worth R7 million screeching to a halt. Police said that two cousins were arrested in connection with the fraud after a centralised police investigation.About 13 cases of fraud with a similar modus operandi had been reported from February 2017 to August Cases were reported at police stations in Chatsworth, Pinetown, Westville, Durban North, Hillcrest, Pietermaritzburg, Inchanga, Camperdown and Hammersdale.  KZN police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker said: “Some of the complainants in the reported cases alleged that they were called by a person who lured them into investing in a business. The caller would inform the complainant of a container with goods coming from overseas and the victim will be asked to invest into the business. “Once the complaint shows interest in the possible business venture they would then be asked to deposit money into a particular bank account. After the money had been deposited, the promised investment opportunity would not materialise.  “Other complainants reported that the person who had called them would inform them that they were selling bank repossessed properties. If the victim exhibited interest in the property they would also be requested to deposit money only to later realise that they have been scammed,” said Naicker.He said that all the reported cases from all the stations were centralised for the purposes of an effective investigation. “The investigation into all the reported cases was led by a team of seasoned detectives based at the Pietermaritzburg police station. The team worked tirelessly in trying to put all the pieces together with all the evidence at their disposal which would result in the arrest of the culprits. A countless number of hours as well as resources were invested in trying to bring down this syndicate. Once the investigation phase was completed and the suspect’s location was identified, an operation was planned for the purposes of arresting the perpetrators,” said Naicker.He said that on 6 March Pietermaritzburg detectives, the K9 unit and Magma Security went to a farm situated a few kilimetres away from Camperdown where the team was met with four vicious pitbulls that had to be restrained. “Two cousins, aged 38 and 39 were arrested on charges relating to fraud and money laundering. During the search of the house police found an amount of over R100 000.They could not provide police with a reasonable account of how the money was accrued especially since they were not employed. The two suspects were detained. They appeared at the Durban Commercial Crimes Court. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula welcomed the arrest of the suspects who were responsible for scamming people.