 With Ladysmith and the rest of South Africa now into day five of the national lockdown, the people of China are stepping out, after being on lock down for more than six weeks. The Ladysmith Herald spoke to former Ladysmith resident and teacher, Sameera Shaik Omar, who now lives and teaches in the city of Wuhan, in Nanjing, China. “There is finally light at the end of the tunnel. After many weeks of isolation and uncertainty, life in China is once again getting back to normal. Wuhan will officially be lifting its lockdown on 8 April. The Education Bureau has issued a statement for schools to begin on 7 April. People are now moving about freely, going to restaurants and can be seen at parks and lakes, going for a run, having picnics and visiting tourist sites but not without precautions, ” said Omar.  Omar told the Ladysmith Herald that people are respecting the law and abiding to the lock down.  Wuhan’s community can still be seen wearing masks and taking all necessary precautions like washing hands and social distancing. Foreigners are returning to the country and strict measures are put into place to prevent the spread of the virus. “Passengers wait up to 8 hours to leave after a long flight. Passengers aren’t allowed to leave until they are given the green sticker pass. Passengers on the plane get tested and await results until given the go ahead to leave. If one person shows symptoms, the entire airplane is sent to designated quarantine hotels. They can’t go to their apartments. “ said Omar. “ City to city travels are also restricted. We aren’t allowed to travel out of the city of Wuhan. Other strict measures include a 14 day self-quarantine when arriving from outside the country. This is imperative to stop the virus from re-infecting the community, “ added Omar. China has designed an app called Alipay, in which residents enter their details to get their health code. This code can be green, orange or red.  Green means that they  safe and able to enter restaurants, and other social places. If it’s not green they are prohibited from being out in public. Omar said that the strict measures in place are there to ensure that the low statistics of infection rates remain.  “ South Africans at this point should apply precautionary measures in order to slow down the rate in which the virus is spreading. It is a concern that in a matter of weeks the number of infected people had increased. Social distancing will ensure that South Africa beats the corona virus. The best thing you could do for yourself, your loved ones and your country is to obey the rules. Practice social distancing, isolate, disinfect, sanitize and wear masks,” said Omar.   Omar advised against panic buying as during the two months of isolation she had a constant supply of food and water. She further advised that people keep a balance and be considerate to other people during this time.   ”Being at home can be very challenging. However, it’s a time for reflection and to do things that you just didn’t get to because you didn’t have the time. Form a healthy indoor routine: exercise, eat healthy, meditate, read books, study, clean up your home, watch movies, spend quality time with your family and children.  Children can be kept busy with free online learning sites which are easily accessible,” advised Omar. 
 It’s a challenging time but it’s not in vain,” added Omar.