More than a month after the death of Rockford grandfather Govindsamy Reddy, 77, which shook the community amidst speculation of neglect and shocking pictures of the malnourished pensioner, information has come to light that the deceased opened a case of common assault and intimidation against his son, Manogren Reddy in December 2011. In an article that appeared in The Phoenix Tabloid (4 February), Reddy was quoted: “I’m the only child my dad ever had, I would never do any harm to my dad and never expected my dad to be taken this way from me.”However, Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, confirmed the case of common assault and intimidation by Govindsamy Reddy against Manogren Reddy in 2011. “Manogren Reddy was arrested and charged on 14 December 2011. It is alleged that on 4 December, Govindsamy Reddy claimed that he was approached by his son Manogren who took money from him. He (Govindsamy) alleged that his son assaulted him and punched him in the face. “Govindsamy alleged that his son (Manogren) threatened to kill him. A case of common assault and intimidation was opened at Phoenix SAPS,” said Cpt Naidoo. Reddy passed away in January 2020 and is alleged to have been left to perish through neglect and starvation while his only son, Manogren Robbie Reddy vehemently refutes such claims.Shocking pictures of a malnourished Reddy and those of him sleeping on the floor as well as notes he threw from a window crying for help, sparked anger and fury within the community. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Reddy’s nephew, Luke Naidoo, said the issues following his uncle’s death have been continuing unabated leading to court appearances.“I spoke out when my uncle passed away because I want to ensure that enough awareness is shed on elder abuse. I lost a dear family member because of late intervention. “My uncle’s cries were not heard in time to possibly save his life. I have been to court several times because it has been alleged by a family member that I am defaming him. I feel that my uncle passed away under questionable circumstances. I stand to gain nothing from all of this running around except justice for my deceased uncle,” said Naidoo.Cpt Naidoo confirmed that an inquest case is being investigated following Reddy’s death. “I have no ulterior motives for pursuing this matter. I want to ensure that this incident does not become a precedent for others in the future. Elder abuse is certainly escalating and we want to put a stop to any and all forms of abuse. We have had women abuse and child abuse but we have certainly neglected elder abuse. I want justice to prevail. The whole truth will be divulged and my uncle’s death will not be in vain,” said Naidoo. The Phoenix Tabloid made several unsuccessful attempts to contact Manogren Reddy for comment on the registered charges.