As
 government and financial service providers look at ways to assist 
consumers whose income might be affected by the lockdown, an expert 
cautions that consumers
 shouldn’t bank on payment holidays. Government
 and financial service providers are looking at ways to mitigate the 
inevitable impact the Covid-19 lockdown will have on the nation’s 
pockets, but consumers shouldn’t bank on payment holidays. This is according to Benay Sager, Chief Operating Officer at one of the country’s leading and largest debt counsellor. He says
 it is a good thing that the banks are looking at measures to assist 
consumers who may struggle to pay what they owe because the lockdown has
 affected their income. “The 
rule of thumb, though, is that if you can continue to meet your 
repayments every month you should. If you can’t because the lockdown is 
affecting short-term cash flow, a payment holiday may be one option.
 If the real problem is that you’re overindebted then you should 
consider debt counselling.” Until 
recently competition law has prevented banks agreeing a common plan, so 
presently there are a number of different offerings for individual 
customers or small enterprises. This may change in the near
 future as new regulations are gazetted to allow banks to share 
information about the best way to restructure loans to offer a so-called
 ‘payment holiday’. Sager 
says whether the banks agree a common set of principles or consumers are
 considering one of the existing offers it’s essential to be aware of 
the terms and conditions. This is particularly true for
 consumers who may hold loans or accounts with a number of different 
banks. “A 
payment holiday is very good news for someone who is facing a short-term
 cash crunch as a result of the lockdown, but it’s possible that the 
interest will keep running, even though payments are paused.
 This means that the total payment at the end of the loan term may be 
more than the original total. This doesn’t mean it’s an option that 
shouldn’t be considered if you’re facing a cash crunch as long as you’re
 aware you may be paying back a bit more.” It is 
important that consumers don’t assume all lenders will offer a payment 
holiday and need to keep paying unless they’re specifically informed 
that they qualify for leniency. If so, then they must understand
 the length of the payment holiday and the interest implications. He says
 that whether a leniency policy is in place or not, anyone who is 
struggling to make repayments should contact the lender immediately and 
try to agree a repayment plan. If they
 are not able to negotiate affordable repayment terms themselves or owe 
too much to too many lenders, they should contact a reputable debt 
counsellor.