KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, held a session with the Provincial Command Team yesterday, 27 March, to provide comprehensive responses to the numerous challenges faced during the scourge of the COVID-19 pandemic. The session began by offering the city’s condolences to the family of the first fatality of the virus and then went on to assess the early hours of the lockdown as well as the response by members of the public. In the initial report, the premier commended and thanked those members of public who adhered to the regulations imposed by the president during the lockdown. “Indeed the overwhelming majority of our citizens as expected of them abided by the directives and we appreciate them for continuing to play their part in our effort to emerge victorious from this battle,” said Zikalala. However, it had been established that there were still people who flooded shopping malls and engaged in panic buying, this prompted the staging of roadblocks and a number of vehicles were sent back. The premier was also concerned about people being stranded and left without public transport after 9am yesterday. Zikalala announced that there would be a meeting to form a contingency plan with regards to transport. In spite of the challenges faced by the country, the premier reiterated the province’s commitment to be the leading economy in the nation with the largest contribution to South Africa’s GDP and are putting measures in place to cushion all sectors of the economy against the impact of the pandemic. “We also wish to send a strong warning to retailers who have been raising food prices in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. We want to protect our consumers during this period,” said Zikalala. Zikalala acknowledged that the shortage of masks for healthcare workers was indeed a challenge, however, was pleased to announce that 100 000 masks were donated to the province by a Chinese organisation based in Guangdong. He said that the masks are currently being distributed to areas which need it the most. Zikalala concluded the session by saying that these were not big challenges and with an emergency of this kind, there are bound to be teething challenges which can be overcome. “As we navigate ourselves out of this storm, we remain confident that South Africans will continue to respond positively to our fight against this pandemic, which is the greatest threat to our lives,” said Zikalala.