A case of common assault has been opened against three primary school pupils who allegedly ganged up, beat and stabbed a fellow 12-year-old pupil with a compass, within the school premises on Monday, 9 March. According to the mother who spoke to the Phoenix Tabloid on the basis of anonymity, fearing victimization, this was not the first incident where the boys attacked her son, a Grade seven pupil of Palmview Primary School. She said: “My son has been a pupil at the school since Grade R and has been bullied throughout his grades by one of the pupils. In Grade five, the pupil teamed up with another pupil and the two have been ganging up on my son ever since. Last year, the boys kneed him on the nose which caused him to swell and bleed. Towards the end of the year, the same pupils punched him on the head which also began swelling – we had to take my child to the doctor on both occasions.” The concerned parent said that in between the two incidents, her son was constantly victimized and harassed by the two pupils. “I had several meetings regarding the ongoing bullying with the school principal who said she had confronted the parents of the other pupils and everything was under control. I also had a meeting with the members of the school governing body who said they would handle the matter,” said the parent. She further stated that the recent incident was the last straw. “I knew I had to do something before it’s too late. Bullying has become so rife at schools that I don’t think much is being done to address the issue. My son was stabbed on both his arms, stoned, kicked and punched by three boys. Pupils must feel safe at school and not be afraid to attend school. There are other pupils that are being bullied by the same two pupils and are afraid to speak about the bullying. I want to say to other parents that they should always check up on their children, and help pupils who suffer at the hands of bullies,” added the parent. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo said, “A case of common assault was opened on Monday, 9 March. It is alleged that a 12-year-old boy was assaulted by three other boys in the presence of other pupils at Palmview Primary School. They punched, kicked, hit him with a school bag and threw a brick at him. He tried to run and lock himself in one of the classrooms but the three boys over powered him and continued with the assault. Three adults witnessed the assault.” Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the principal of Palmview Primary School (who refused to give her name) said that she was aware of the incident and was investigating it further. She said that she could not give any further comments.