The KZN MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, on Sunday, 22 March released a statement on the compilation of database of travellers from high-risk countries. Dube Ngcune said that her statement is based on her ongoing interaction with the Minister of Tourism, Mmamaloko Kubayi-Ngubane, regarding measures that have been put in place by government to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “Some of the measures we have discussed include a travel ban under a state of disaster as announced by the President, Cyril Ramaphosa, being guided by the Disaster Management Act. In line with the risk rating of the World Health Organisation (WHO), the movement of travellers from 10 high-risk countries has been restricted across the country including KwaZulu-Natal,” said Ncube. She said that as previously stated the travel regulations are intended to curb the spread and ultimately ensure the safety of the people of this province and visitors. “I have instructed the head of department, KZN Tourism Authority and KZN Convention Bureau to inform stakeholders in the tourism industry in KZN of the latest developments. In this regard, a formal correspondence has already been dispatched from the office of the HOD. “We have advised hotels, lodges, bed and breakfast establishments and other facilities that are currently providing accommodation for travellers from high-risk countries, to urgently compile a database of all tourists, their nationality, date of arrival and places they have been to. They should let tourists remain where they are and be quarantined for 14 days to ensure screening as per WHO regulations and not to provide accommodation until results of Covid-19 are returned and are negative. The travellers that are affected are from USA, Iran, South Korea, United Kingdom, Spain, Switzerland, China, France, Germany and Italy,” said Ncube. She emphasized that a database for travelers from medium risk countries such as; Portugal, Hong Kong and Singapore must be submitted to KZN Tourism data capturers by emailing to slindile@zulu.org.za, mbalim@zulu.org.za or fikile@zulu.org.za or by calling 031 366 7500/ 41/24/45.  “It is comforting to know that national government is in touch with us and we wish to inform our visitors that efforts are being made to ensure their safe evacuation back to their respective countries once all processes have been finalised by the relevant authorities. This database of travelers is therefore critical. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> “We express our appreciation to both Ministers of Health, Dr Zweli Mkhize and Minister of Tourism, Mmamaloko Kubayi-Ngubane and the Premier, Sihle Zikalala for the support and guidance during this period. We affirm our commitment, as the department, towards ensuring the general welfare of the people of KwaZulu-Natal,” added  Ncube. She added that as government they would like to emphasize that the presence of tourists is valued in the province. “Our stakeholders in the tourism facilities were looking forward to making their stay in this province a memorable one. In view of the increasingly severe impact of the epidemic on the tourism industry, we plead for the co-operation and understanding of everyone involved,” Ncube said.