KREST Publishers has announced their annual short story competition, in which a talented South African can earn a R1000 cash prize and have their story published on Krest’s blog. The competition runs from 1 – 16 April. During the lockdown, some South Africans can’t earn from work but they can earn from their talent and unlock their creativity.  The topics are fun and creative. The competition is open to all South Africans to get creative, have fun, and earn something during an incredibly trying time. The opportunity can better the lockdown experience for a talented South African. WHO CAN ENTER •   South African citizens of any age and from any province.
•   Anyone with a good story, even if you aren’t a professional writer WHAT TO WRITE Your short story should be <2000 words. Pick a topic from the list below: •   Write of romance at any South African landmark destination. Whether it’s a first meeting while holidaying at the Kruger National Park, an anniversary at the Drakensburg, or a proposal on Table Mountain – the love story is in your hands. •   Write about a unique house in your South African suburb. The house might have secret passageways, magical garden sculptures, or be built of unusual materials – let your imagination run wild here. •   Write about how a conspiracy theory gets unmasked in your South African hometown. Whether it’s an alien aircraft cover-up or a hushed scientific experiment – you can create a character that will expose it all! •   Write about a South African family facing a problem. Whether it concerns financial difficulties, is about urban or rural households, has to do with job loss, centres on social stigma… the stories of South Africans matter to us. •   Write a who dunnit  Whether it’s a murder mystery, crime thriller, or the simple case of who ate your lunch at work – you can bring out your detective skills in any way you like. HOW TO ENTER We know you’re full of exciting words – but only one story per participant is allowed, so choose wisely. Submit your story between 1 and 16 April to submissions@krestpublishers.co.za           
    •   Use ‘Short Story Competition’ as your subject line.
    •   In the body of your email tell us a bit about yourself – don’t forget to include contact details so we can contact you about that beautiful story of yours. Competition closes at midnight on 16 April. The winner will be announced on 21 April. THE PRIZE R1000 prize money, and your story will be published on Krest’s blog. Full details of the competition and the terms and conditions can be found on the website: www.krestpublishers.co.za and blog : http://ow.ly/KqBK50yYUJT Enquiries can be directed to info@krestpublishers.co.za