There are no cases of COVID-19 virus in South Africa. After careful consideration and requests from the families of the South Africans in Wuhan, President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday, 27 February, gave the go-ahead for South Africans living in the Chinese city of Wuhan to be repatriated. Of the 199 South Africans in Wuhan, 147 said they wanted to be repatriated. Amongst them are students who have completed studies or have had their studies interrupted by the lockdown. 16 Citizens do not wish to return home. One South African citizen opted to be repatriated with Indian citizens who were evacuated by the Indian government. The remaining 36 South Africans are being located. Presidential spokesperson, Khusela Diko said: “None of the affected individuals have been diagnosed with the virus nor exhibited symptoms. Upon arrival in South Africa, they will be placed in quarantine for 21 days as an additional precautionary measure.” Guided by the WHO guidelines, Government has instituted a  repatriation process to be implemented in three phases namely: – Evacuation: Via a chartered aircraft under strict quarantine protocols undertaken by the military and the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) – The location of the quarantine facility has not been confirmed by Government, however it has been reported widely that the facility will be in the Free State. No visitors will be allowed and legal action will be taken against those who do not adhere to the rules. Those testing positive for Coronavirus would be transferred to a designated referral facility. – Re-unification will take place, assuming the quarantine period is incident free. The Departments of Health and Defence, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, the Department of Home Affairs and the Department of Social Development will be actively involved in the  repatriation and quarantine processes. The COVID-19 virus (Corona Virus), was first reported in Wuhan City, China in November 2019 and is believed to be originated in a food market. The symptoms which are largely respiratory, can range from mild upper respiratory tract manifestations to respiratory failure, multi-organ failure and death. The mortality rate is around 3% and majority of fatalities are patients who are immunocompromised either due to age or pre-existing conditions. Studies are ongoing, with no cure in sight and no vaccine as yet. Two South Africans who were crew members of the Princess Diamond ship that is parked off the coast of Yokohoma, tested positive for Coronavirus.  The Minister of Health, Zwelini Mkhize, said that the two patients are recovering well and will be free to return once they test negative. South Africa is ready if a COVID-19 case presents itself and have instituted the following measures: Since the outbreak of the disease, China has treated 80 000 patients with proven COVID-19.  Approximately 32 000 have recovered and around 46 000 are still on treatment, with 2900 deaths. The rate of infection is declining in China with recoveries exceeding new infections. Today, the coronavirus has spread to 50 countries world wide. In Africa, three cases of infection have been officially reported: In Egypt (1), in Algeria (1) and in Nigeria (1) with no deaths being reported.