Members of the Phoenix SAPS arrested two males who were found to be in possession of drugs at a property in Shadypark, Shastripark, Phoenix on Saturday, 28 March. The arrest was made after irate members of the public gathered in protest against the owners of the property for allegedly dealing in drugs during the nationwide lockdown. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo confirmed the arrests of a runner and a buyer stating, “Members of the Phoenix SAPS attended to a complaint of the selling of drugs at a house in Shadypark Place, Shastripark, on Saturday morning. On arrival members found a large group of residents who were upset with the drug dealing at the property. The police managed to disperse the group of residents. Captain Naidoo said that the officers jumped over the boundary wall and conducted a search around the house. “They found two males on the premises and upon searching them, found drugs in their possession. The pair were arrested accordingly. The officers then went inside the house and conducted a search but did not find any drugs. The owner was very upset and leveled allegations against the police of damage to property and assault, ” she said. According to police reports when the officers left the house to detain the arrested males a heated argument ensued between members of the public and the owners of the alleged drug den and video footage. The video footage which has since gone viral on various social media platforms shows a number of alleged runners and dealers coming out of the house while the owner and a female neighbour had an exchange of words. Captain Naidoo confirmed that the area is being monitored closely. She further stated, “The local residents were informed that they have a right to assemble peacefully and unarmed for the purpose of protesting, picketing and demonstrating. However this cannot be done during the nationwide lockdown. Anyone who is not in confinement of their home and gathers on the street will be arrested, ” said Naidoo.