Various media platforms carried the story last week that eThekwini Municipality will be providing residents with a payment holiday during the national 21 days shutdown, 26 March to 16 April. The municipality has issued a statement today, (Monday, 30 March) refuting the term “payment holiday” and providing full clarity. The statement issued by eThekwini Municipality’s Communications Unit Acting head, Msawakhe Mayisela said:  • That residential and business utility accounts will be charged as normal  • However the municipality will not disconnect customers during the lockdown as stated by the Mayor last Thursday, 26 March.  • During this time there will also be no interest incurred on arrear accounts. • The municipality will also extend the period for the submission of rates rebate applications to 31 May. This could be further extended depending on the state of the country. • The National Prosecuting Authority will be requested to consider an amnesty or discount on traffic fines as there will be several roadblocks and residents should not be inconvenienced. • During the period from 26 March to 16 April, the municipality will abide by the lockdown protocols set out by the President, and have closed all the Banking Halls and Sizakala Centres. All customers are urged to pay utility bills using any of the following methods: Payments at the 3rd party outlets can still be made at Shoprite, Checkers and Pick ‘n Pay etc. The municipality urged customers to make use of the online direct payment facility. The City banks with Nedbank and is a pre-loaded beneficiary.The Municipality said that all direct debit payment runs will be conducted on 1 April, 7 April and 15 April. The Municipality further added that during the lockdown no new revenue clearance applications will be processed from conveyancers. In addition, the postage of bills through the Post Office will be impacted during this period and customers who do not receive their bills are encouraged to pay the average of their bills. Registration for online billing will enable the customers to receive bills through emails and view them online. Registration can be done through the portal https://eservices.durban.gov.za/v2/.