A historian says in the wake of the globally rapid spreading coronavirus, it is important to reflect on the Spanish flu of 1918 which wiped out millions of people worldwide including a staggering 500 000 in South Africa. Professor Howard Phillips of the University of Cape Town said the second and third waves of the flu in SA, were deadly. According to Phillips, thousands of South African soldiers who were in the battlefields of the First World War in the USA, were unaware that they were infected with the killer virus. He said after the ships docked at the ports in Durban and Cape Town, the epidemic spread like wildfire. That however was just the tip of the iceberg. Since the soldiers those days travelled from one area to the next via trains, it was just a matter of time before the trains, stations and civilian passengers were also infected. Phillips said by 1918 South Africa had a well developed train network and transported people from remote areas, to do their shopping and errands in towns and cities. Said Phillips: ” While some controversy exists as to the exact source of infection and its spread in South Africa, there is general agreement that the participation of soldiers in the war was a direct contributory factor in its arrival in South Africa. It was established that both ships had docked at Sierra Leone, one of the places regarded as a central point of the infection. Owing to the migrant labour system miners took the infections with them to the mines, their homes and other places. In just six weeks, the death toll in South Africa was 300 000.” <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> According to Phillips, back then there was no national or provincial health departments to coordinate a plan of action. “Following a surge in the statistics of coronavirus (also known as Covid-19), President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a National State of Disaster and introduced measures to curb the spread of the disease. In 1918, the authorities did not know who to turn to because there was no one to turn to,” said Phillips.