The sudden increases in cases of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) virus globally is causing concern. This week saw the World Health Organization (WHO) upgrade the global risk of the coronavirus outbreak to “very high” – its top level of risk assessment. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> In a bid to lend a helping hand in the international efforts to fight the deadly COVID-19 outbreak, the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN), is to launch a ‘first of its kind in Africa’ Campus Health ‘War Room’. Professor Nana Poku, UKZN Vice-Chancellor and Principal, said: ” While no cases of the disease have been detected in South Africa, the World Health Organisation expects countries, to detect cases. We know cases have already been detected in Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt, Senegal and Morocco, with two South Africans diagnosed in Japan. More than 150 South Africans in Wuhan will be brought back into the country. “The threat of the new Coronavirus is compelling motivation why UKZN needs to constantly be alert and put in place proactive and pro-response mechanisms to combat diseases and illnesses,” said Poku. On Tuesday, 3 March, the University’s College of Health Sciences, headed by its deputy vice chancellor, Professor Busisiwe Ncama, has instituted a large-scale high level surveillance, prevention and response measures to ensure readiness when COVID-19 is detected in the vicinity. “The plan offers a coordinated cohesive strategy for preparedness, and will require every one of us to get involved. The University is committed to putting in place measures to strengthen these essential campus health services before our campus is hit by the virus,” added Poku. The project will be led by Professor Mosa Moshabela, the Dean and Head of School: Nursing and Public Health who will be leading a team of experts. The ‘War Room’ will provide the necessary evidence and guidance to effectively respond to COVID-19, and this may include a policy of quarantine, including self-quarantine, in all possible cases of exposure for the duration of the incubation period, and based on any requirements by the health authorities. The UKZN high-level approach includes: “It is our hope that this effort, under our banner #ukzncovid19, will support and benefit our local communities to detect, prevent and respond to the virus. As an institution of higher learning with exceptional clinical expertise, we will be called upon to support the  province, should the need arise, and we must remain ready for such responsibilities. “We may call upon our UKZN community to join the COVID-19 community mobilisation campaign, which will involve our volunteers and staff going out in the community, together with local and provincial government, to create awareness about the spread of the disease,” said Poku. Staff and students can send enquiries to covid19@ukzn.ac.za and  the general public toll-free number 0800 029 999 pending the creation of its own (hotline). The hashtag: #ukzncovid19 may be used.