Three months after Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula visited Wentworth SAPS, addressing recent shootings, two residents have been seriously injured, while one sustained minor injuries after an alleged drive-by shooting on Major Calvert Street, on Tuesday, 3 March. The community of Wentworth believes that more needs to be done to address matters that affect the youth, as they are at risk. It has  become a norm in Wentworth as residents claim that hearing the sound of gunshots is nothing new to them.



<br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br />

Communications officer of Wentworth SAPS, Captain Mbuso Gumede said, “The detectives of Wentworth are investigating two counts of attempted murder after a shooting occurred on Major Calvert Street in Wentworth. No arrests have been made as yet,” In an address made by Jula in December 2019, he said, “Social economic issues, poverty, unemployment and a number of other issues could be the reason behind the shootings, however even if that is the case, crime is crime. Even if these are the issues, it doesn’t give anyone the right to go around shooting people. We have stepped in to stabilise the situation. We have to identify where the issues stem from, set short term and long term goals on how to solve the situation. We want the community on board to advise us and give us feedback. The main concern is dealing with the root of the crime, which is the kingpins, territories and sale of drugs. They want to enrich themselves at the expense of the people and destroying the society.” He also said that they have teams that are not necessarily from Wentworth station, so if the community has issues with the station, there are other people they can speak to. Issues of corruption can be reported to 086 001 0111 or give information directly to him on 082 419 9266. “We commit ourselves to interventions and deployments. The community is encouraged to create a WhatsApp groups to interact with each other. We are also working on ways to improve the reaction time. Our condolences to all who had lost loved ones due to the shootings,” Lt General Jula said.