No stranger to the world of words, Zuleikha Mayat is truly a walking library of history and is gearing up to impart some of her knowledge in her newest read. The book titled “Odyssey of Crossing Oceans”, which covers the experiences of how Arabs had made their way along the coasts for trade, is in its final stages of publication and is set to be released later this year. The 94-year-old Westville resident exuded the energy of a bubbly lass no older than 25 and was eager to pour out details of her life’s experiences. Growing up in Potchefstroom, Mayat was one of seven siblings and had dreams of becoming a doctor. “At the time, education was very limited so I had only finished my standard six (grade 8). My parents were very liberal in the sense that they did not hold me back from wanting to pursue my dreams. It was decided that one of my brothers would board at my uncle’s house so that he could study at the University of the Witwatersrand. My parents enquired if I could board there so that I too could study medicine. He had responded the way any man would at the time by saying that he could not be held accountable for a daughters’ actions should she do anything wrong,” said Mayat. It was then that Mayat decided to do a short course in journalism and fell in love with the pen. She said: “I had penned a few letters to Moosa Meer, the editor of the weekly Gujarati/English Indian Views which had been published. This laid the foundation of my career as a writer.” In 1947, Mayat ventured out of her hometown to Durban when she wed Dr G.H.M Mayat. Thanks to her published work, Mayat was offered the women’s column, Fahmida’s World, which she grabbed with both hands and successfully wrote for eight years. After noticing the domesticated routines of talented young women in her area, Mayat decided that it was time to create a more positive space for the young ladies. “When I had started the Women’s Cultural Group, there were 13 of us composed of one Parsee, one Hindu and 11 Muslims. The initial aim of the group was to discover their talents and network to  assist charitable causes better. “We had noticed that there were no Indian cook books at the time, so we decided to create one ourselves. We received an influx of recipes from women in our group but to our dismay most of them only required a pinch of this and a handful of that. So, being the only one with some journalistic experience, I became the tester of recipes and the writer of Indian Delights,” recalled Mayat. The proceeds from the five editions of the books go directly towards our interest free loans for students in tertiary institutions. The NGO had initially started off giving student loans up to the value of R2 000 but has increased that to R700 000 in recent years. The wrinkles on Mayat’s face are akin to canals of wisdom which flows down into her writing of her travelogue, Journey of Binte Batuti, her experiences of Potchefstroom titled A Treasure Trove of Memories and her most interesting compilation, Dear Ahmedbhai, Dear Zuleikhabehn. The latter was a full on compilation of letters (1979-1989) between Mayat and a freedom fighter friend of her brother, Ahmed Kathrada during his incarceration. Although she may not be an active founder of the Women’s Cultural Group anymore, Mayat urges young women to join the group and stay true to who they are. “Don’t forget your language, don’t forget your culture and please be involved with people. If you are involved with people, you are an activist,” advised Mayat. The build up to Mayat’s newest book has her excited from the tips of her toes as she has dug further into history to impart her knowledge to avid readers.