Phoenix resident, 21-year-old, Al-haadia Shaik, an activist and feminist, recently held a placard demonstration in Bottlebrush informal settlement in Chatsworth to uplift women from the community and create an awareness.“This year, I was particularly intrigued by International Women’s Day and the way in which it was being acknowledged, locally and internationally. Women’s rights, or rather the abuse of women’s rights, has taken centre stage in the last few months. We have seen abuse of women in our local media and call for women to get involved, active and to be heard. My personal experiences and work in my community have given me a deep understanding of the challenges that face us as women and also our children. There has been a scourge of gender-based violence in our country, which has resulted in our government, through President Cyril Ramaphosa, declaring a national address and implementing an emergency response action plan on gender-based violence and femicide,” said Shaik. International Women’s Day is commemorated on 8 March, annually around the world. This is the focal point in the movement for women’s rights. Shaik said that she decided to reach out to women from ward 71 which consists of parts of Shallcross, Crossmoor, Moorton and Bottlebrush within the Chatsworth community. “I travelled about 60km from my home in Phoenix to the Bottlebrush informal community where an event took place at Madiba Hall, located in the heart of the informal settlement. I presented my idea and it was welcomed by women of all ages. I wanted to hold a programme that would catch people’s attention, a programme that would not require a budget and something that anyone could participate in. I decided to hold a placard demonstration,” said Shaik.Some of the placards read: ‘We stand together’, ‘Peace’, ‘Protect our women and children’, ‘We are united’, ‘No to violence’, ‘Ward 71 is safe for all our people’. “We had an amazing turnout and were met with loud hooters and cheers of ‘viva’ from people and vehicles passing by. My goal is to show our people, men, women and especially our youth, that through our actions we can inspire change. We do not have to sit back and be a victim, and that if we have time to complain about an issue, we also have time to put forward a meaningful solution to that issue,” said Shaik.She said that ward 71 has gone through many struggles including racial divisions and a lack of cohesion. “The ward, has in the past, made headlines for drugs, violence, disturbing service delivery protests and the tragic death of young Sadia Sookraj in a botched hijacking. However, in the last year, I have seen a remarkable turnaround in the ward. There is a vibrancy created in the community, positivity and a spirit of unity, energy and hope. I have seen the people of the diverse area coming together, to assist and make the ward safe, there is a unique sense of activism,” she said.Shaik added: “I am beginning to realise that we are sometimes required to challenge cultures and practices that perpetuate gender inequalities and consequent abuse of women and children at personal and societal levels. Let us all hold each other accountable and ensure that our homes, our roads, our communities and our country are gender equitable and violence -free.” Read More: