The city claims it has no knowledge of a water leak, but irate motorists travelling along the M21 Inanda Road, under a railway bridge in Durban, say the leak has been there for a couple of months. They say that the leak has caused serious damage to the road and passing motorists. “I noticed the leak a few months ago when I was driving past the area. Every time when I drive past, I check to see if it has been fixed but to my surprise it has not been repaired yet. I have seen municipal workers there a couple of times but it seems they were doing something else, since the leak is still there,” said one motorist who uses the road regularly. He said that the leak has also taken a toll on the road surface which is now damaged. “There are potholes everywhere and the manholes are always full of water, its as if the storm-water drains are blocked or something,” said the motorist. Another motorist said that she noticed the leak a couple of weeks ago as she normally drives past the area in the mornings. “There is water all over the road and when another car passes by, the dirty water splashes onto your car, that is why I don’t like using this road,” she said. She added that the city is faced with water challenges but if leaks are not fixed timelessly, then water loss is going to increase even more drastically. Motorists say that the water from the leak is causing too much damage to the road and it appears to be worsening with each passing day. They called on the city to fix the leak or find a solution to the water problem and potholes on the road. Motorists have come up with a way to warn other road users of water and manholes by placing a boulder in the middle of the road, however, other motorists are not happy as the boulder is not clearly visible and can cause serious damage to passing vehicles. One motorist said that the boulder damaged her car. Ward 34 Councillor, Bobby Maharajh, said that the leak has been ongoing for the past six months or more. “I have been reporting it to the city and residents have also been reporting it. They come out and dig but whatever they are doing is not working,” he said. Maharajh said he was amazed by the city saying that they are not aware of the leak when he was the one who initially reported it. EThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said that a fault was logged for the leak after Tabloid Newspapers contacted the city for a comment. He said that a reference number logged will be used to track the process of the work being done. “We urge residents to join us in the fight against water leaks and please report all water leaks to the city on the number 080 1313013 or send a message on the WhatsApp Water Reporting Line number, 073 148 3477.  Residents can also use the number 43554 to SMS when reporting water leaks or email Eservices@durban.gov.za. The sooner the matter is reported, the sooner the city can send a team to resolve the matter,” Mayisela said.