The residents and the councillor for ward 65 have called on the eThekwini Municipality to act decisively on the numerous burst pipes which have left them counting the cost. Over the past two months, the residents of Burlington Heights have had to survive days without running water, due to a numbers of burst pipes in the area. Ward 65 councillor, Samantha Windvogel, said at one point there were 10 burst pipes in the vicinity of Midmar Road which left the area without running water for four days. “It’s been on and off for months now, with burst pipes in the area. The residents are bearing the brunt of ageing eThekwini Municipality infrastructure and are being left counting the cost of having dry taps,” Windvogel said. According to the councillor, a number of homes reported their geysers being damaged, as a result of not having running water to fill up the heated tanks. A Midmar Road family that suffered from a burst pipe in their front yard, said they were still counting the costs of the damage done to their property and vehicle. The family said the incident occurred on 1 March, and they noticed the low water pressure at around 6am when they woke up. “When we realised there was something wrong and that we had to move our vehicles from the yard, that was when the driveway caved in underneath one of the vehicles,” the resident said.A burst pipe running underneath their property created a sink hole, collapsing a section of their paved driveway. “The vehicle was hanging on the edge and we had to call the insurance and municipality for assistance because there was water gushing everywhere and we could not move the vehicle. The insurance company had to bring a rig in order to get the car out,” Naidoo added. Twelve days later, the hole had yet to be repaired. Naidoo said: “I’m still left counting the costs for that burst pipe. The municipality has been out to do their assessments but no repairs have been done as yet. There’s sand everywhere and we are not sure about the conditions of the rest of the pipe. A similar incident happened to my neighbour a few years ago.”The Midmar Road resident called on eThekwini to treat the issue with urgency and deal with ageing and breaking of infrastructure. The municipality had yet to answer questions sent by The Chatsworth Tabloid by the time of print, despite acknowledging the query. Ward 65 councillor Samantha Windvogel said: “Both the residents and myself have contacted the municipality about these recurring pipe bursts. They come out to fix them and then another one burst. The eThekwini Municipality needs to do something about maintenance and the deteriorating municipal infrastructure.”The councillor, residents and the rate payers association recently handed over a memorandum to the municipality, demanding a speedy resolution to their water woes. “The next step is to have a meeting with the municipality, to find out what is the way forward on the mater,” Windvogel added.  As ward 65 councillor Samantha Windvogel covers the areas of Burlington Heights, Bellair,  Coedmore, Hillary, Kharwastan, Mount Vernon, Queensmead Industrial and Umhlatuzana. Windvogel can be reached via email on at cllrsamantha.windvogel@gmail.com and via call on message on 074 323 3900. Also read: