EThekwini Municipality has confirmed that a temporal steel pedestrian bridge will be erected in the vicinity of Cornubia where many scholars attending Phoenix schools have previously been fatally run over by speeding vehicles.This after the recent accident involving a 14-year-old girl who was run over on the R102, between the Palmview intersection and the Trade Centre off ramp. The frequent pedestrian accidents raised concerns with locals calling for a pedestrian bridge over the busy road to protect school children who use the road on a daily basis when attending schools in the neighbouring Phoenix area. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, a Cornubia resident, Thandi Xulu whose children attend a Phoenix school said: “We need a pedestrian bridge as our children’s lives are at risk. I fear everyday for my two children who use this road twice everyday when going and coming back from school. Too many lives have been lost already and a pedestrian bridge is the only solution to put a stop to these fatal accidents.” Democratic Alliance councillor Lyndal Singh, whose ward borders Cornubia said that she had made a request to council on several occasions to have an overhead pedestrian bridge erected, to ensure the safety of those walking from Cornubia to Phoenix. “Ward 50 borders Cornubia and children attend the schools, library and the clinic in Phoenix due to the municipality’s poor planning. In ward 50, children from Cornubia attend Grandmore and Sterngrove Primary as well as Stanmore and Grove End Secondary Schools. Council did not consider population dynamics when they began the housing project in Cornubia and as a result, many children have become a statistic in road accidents,” said Singh. EThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said: “The city is aware of the concerns of the community and as a result has already started the process to engage the province which is responsible for the road. In the meantime, we are exploring several avenues that will be temporal solutions to this challenge as raised by the community. “One of them is to erect a temporal steel pedestrian bridge that will be easy to dismantle in the event of a permanent bridge. We are appealing to residents to bear with us as we have elevated these grievances to the on top of our agenda. We are calling for the community be calm and refrain from embarking on violent protest action.”