Residents of Chatsworth and surrounding areas should be advised that the voice note circulating about Chatsworth Centre being shut down, is not true. According to a statement issued by Chatsworth Centre management, SAPS and Metro Police members called for an urgent meeting to discuss a way forward regarding the overcrowding. In the meeting, it was said that shoppers should adhere to a one and a half meter space restriction, and retailers have agreed to use trolleys for this purpose. Montford resident, Urisha Naidoo said, “It angers me that the ignorance of our people to what we are facing in this pandemic has resulted in the majority of our community suffering. We need to listen and follow simple rules, one person per family, distance while in queues, limit the passengers in vehicles, leave your children at home, protect yourselves, use gloves, masks, sanitizers etc. We should not be in a situation where shops are being closed because people are not abiding by the rules.” Police confirmed that they would be present at Chatsworth Centre and that they would arrest people who break the law. In the statement, the centre management advised shoppers that essential grocery stores, banks and pharmacies will be trading between 9am and 5pm daily. Residents are also encouraged to only shop when it is necessary and not to panic buy as stock will be available. It was further said in the statement, “Some of our gates and doors will be locked and therefore access at these locations will be denied to the public, we urge you to heed to the instructions from our security personnel, SAPS or Metro and use the access routes open to the public. We will also be limiting entry into the parking areas, allowing only 20 vehicles into the mall parking areas at any given time and we will continue to limit the number of persons entering the mall. To better plan your route before visiting Chatsworth Centre, know that if you are accessing the lower part of the mall (Shoprite, Capitec or B Nagiahs) you would need to enter via the doors located on this level only. Shoppers needing access to Dis-Chem, Nedbank, Standard Bank and FNB will be able to access these facilities via the upper level (the entrance door in between Telkom and Pravinas). Shoppers requiring access to Clicks and Woolworths must enter via the Bradlows entrance. Spar access is only from their outdoor entrance. Chatsworth Centre will strategically use speed fencing in some areas to control movement within the mall.