Fourteen rescued workers paid outstanding salaries Following the crackdown and rescue of 14 factory workers at a mask-manufacturing business premises in Umhlanga, yesterday (Sunday , 29 March), the arrested 53-year-old Chinese businessman heading the production, has been granted R20, 000 bail in the Durban Magistrate’s Court, today. His next appearance in court will be on 20 June. The MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube said in a statement that the 14 employees who were locked up at the factory, received their salaries. ” The workers have been paid their salaries and at this stage, we wish to allow the Department of Employment and Labour to continue with their investigation in relation to the violation of the Conditions of Employment; and Occupational and Safety Act. Dube-Ncube said that she has instructed officials from the department to move with speed in processing hundreds of complaints from workers across the province and she also said that unannounced visits have been planned.  
 ”It is disturbing to learn about workers who are forced to work in groups of more than 300 in unhygienic conditions. This, despite the fact that they are not performing essential services as stipulated by the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition. 
 She said that complaints have been received against companies that are alleged to have issued fraudulent permits to workers and companies that are alleged to have obtained permits after giving false information. “ Consequently, some workers are forced to work in contravention of the national disaster provisions as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa. We have received reports of workers who have been arrested for failing to comply with guidelines outlined by the national government. I reiterate our position as the department. We will never turn a blind eye to these injustices,” said Dube-Ncube.
 ”Critically, Coronavirus poses a major threat to the stability of our economy. We condemn business owners who are exposing the province’s work force to this virus.  It is highly commendable for some businesses who have responded positively to government’s call for partnerships during this difficult period,” she added. Dube-Ncube said that the department has joined forces with the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry in order to ensure that workers and business are cushioned from the negative impact of the coronavirus. “It is important for the business community to be alive to the reality that the coronavirus has already placed a strain on the national and provincial fiscus. ”Workers remain our special resource that we must protect in order to ensure that – post coronavirus period – we revive our economy. Protecting our workforce is critical because absenteeism from the workplace as a result of illnesses related to coronavirus will negatively affect production. This will have harmful effect on economic stability and growth,” said Dube-Ncube