A shop owner from Phoenix was allegedly arrested recently after an investigation was conducted by officials from the EDTEA’s Consumer Protection Services (CPS). This, after the MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTA), Nomusa Dube-Ncube issued a warning to retailers and also encouraged consumers to lodge complaints of goods and essential goods being sold at inflated prices. The owner of Longbury Meat Market (LMM) is accused of allegedly contravening the Consumer Protection Act Regulations and the Disaster Management Act Regulations which were issued by the Minister of the Trade, Industry and Competition, Ebrahim Patel, on 24 March. According to the regulations, the owner would have to pay a fine of R1 million or up to 10 percent of his business’s annual turnover, if found guilty. There is a possibility of imprisonment not exceeding 12 months.   Mohamed Araff Ismail, managing member of LMM, issued a statement saying that the negative publicity on social media against his store relating to the alleged hike of meat prices was unjustified and “ although directed at having a deterrent effect, was completely misplaced.”  The statement further read: “It was unfounded and ill-founded, given the consumer protection representative’s reluctance to listen to the logical and truthful explanation which the LMM representative attempted to advance. “  Ismail said that the motive was to find a ‘scape-goat’ and publish this on social media to demonstrate that the CPS was effectively complying with its mandate but the truth is that LMM’s stocks were depleted and trading had paused for a short while to take delivery of new stocks, which were purchased at slightly higher rates. In the ordinary course of its business, LMM then computed its selling price on its usual profit mark-up ie it did not generate any more profit on its new stocks than it did on its old stocks. “ The CPS representative appeared to be intentionally intransigent and declined to see evidence of invoices etc offered by LMM management. Shortly thereafter a publication appeared on social media that the representative of LMM had been arrested in connection with ‘hiking’ prices and that he admitted to having done so. This was extremely deceptive reporting and surreptitious, “ said Ismail. Ismail said that they have engaged legal services to sue for defamation of character through innuendo. “ The social media publication conveyed that the owner of LMM ‘admitted to hiking prices’. This constitutes an intentional misrepresentation as he admitted having increased prices in the ordinary course of business, “ said Ismail. Ismail added that the incorrect perception conveyed by a publication reported to have been issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry is extremely unfortunate and counter-productive. “ It is to be hoped that such unfortunate conduct will be deterred in the future by the legal proceedings which LMM contemplates instituting against the Minister of Trade, Industry and Competition and the CPS. “ said Ismail. Meanwhile, Dube-Ncube said that the department is intensifying the implementation of a zero-tolerance policy towards price gougers who are using the coronavirus outbreak to sell much-needed food and other products, at inflated prices. Dube -Ncube said the investigation was done following complaints of price hiking. Dube – Ncube said that the department is investigating other cases in the province and has referred the matter to SAPS for investigation, and to the National Consumer Commission (NCC) and Competition Commission (CC). 
 
“In order to protect consumers from exploitation during the lockdown, the department has engaged the services of the Consumer Goods Scheme Ombudsman who has warned retailers and airlines of the consequences of non-compliance with the Consumer Protection Act. He has emphasized that consumers have the right to refund,” said Dube-Ncube. She added that as guided by the law, the department will intensify investigating complaints around excessive pricing by retailers. “We have strengthened our partnership with the SAPS, the NCC and the Consumer Goods Council of South Africa. A team of experienced officials are on standby to investigate complaints regarding excessive pricing, “ said  Dube-Ncube. Their contact details are as follows: email: Consumer Complaint@kznedtea.gov.za,  WhatsApp: 082 458 0706 / 082 374 6660.