Pupils of Hopeville Primary School in Unit 2, Phoenix were sent home this morning, (Friday,13 March) after it was established that a staff member at the school had recently visited Turkey, which is one of the countries listed with the coronavirus (COVID-19). Turkey had confirmed its second coronavirus case today. The country’s Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said that the second patient was from the circle of people close to the first patient that was diagnosed earlier in the week. Hopeville Primary School School Governing Body(SGB) chairperson, Neville Khandai sent out letters to parents informing them about the closure of the school as of today until further notice. “A staff member had returned from an overseas trip and as a precautionary measure, the SGB of Hopeville Primary has taken a decision that all pupils should remain at home until further notice,” said Khandai. Khandai assured parents that no child will be disadvantaged academically, no tests will be written, neither will any delivery of lessons take place in the period that the pupils are at home. He said that parents will be informed via EduSams when the children should return to school. Val Pillay, a resident of Centenary Park which is situated in the vicinity of the local school, spoke to the Phoenix Tabloid stating: “The staff member has recently returned from a short visit outside the country. It hasn’t been confirmed if she has contracted the virus as she’s still within the window period, however parents are concerned that she was in school on Monday and Tuesday this week, without the necessary steps being taken. The school should have informed parents about the individual to allow them to decide whether to send their children to school or not. The principal and the circuit manager are being defensive when they should have been more cautious and informed parents about this.” A parent who fetched his children at the school today said: “The staff member should have not been at the school at all. She blatantly put our children at risk. Furthermore, the school principal should have communicated this matter with parents long ago and not two full days after the staff member had been in the presence of the children.” According to reports, the staff member is currently in self isolation. It is believed that she was tested for the coronavirus prior to leaving Turkey and on arrival in South Africa and both results have been negative. DA Ward 48 councillor Michelle Lutchmen urged the public not to cause panic and refrain from spreading fake news. “This is a very serious issue that we face as a country. We’ve received reports that the staff member traveled to Turkey and has done the necessary tests which were negative. So we urge everyone to remain calm. We will share further information with the public as soon as we have been informed on the case,” said Lutchmen.