An inflammatory Facebook post written in Zulu by a primary school teacher near Pietermaritzburg has the Indian community up in arms after allegedly claiming ‘Satan was an Indian.’ The post that has since gone viral sparked an outcry within the Indian community and spurred the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha to lodge a complaint with the SA Human Rights Commission (HRC) and the provincial education department to investigate the post which sought to demonise the Indian community. A translation of the post into English, states: “If you are just reading the Bible you find out that Satan was an Indian.” Ram Maharaj, president of the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha, slammed the post and said in media reports that it was patently racist, discriminatory, divisive and potentially incited violence.  According to Maharaj, the post had generated disharmony and tension among staff members. He said in reports: “It is shocking that a teacher does not know that the Indian population of South Africa consists of Hindus, Muslims and Christians. Christians pray to Christ and Muslims worship Allah. Hindus, who constitute the vast majority of Indians, do not believe in Satan or hell.”Maharaj added: “She’s (the teacher) allegedly fanning the flame of racial and religious hostility and hatred towards Indians. (The) inflammatory and vitriolic post carries the potential of inciting violence towards the peace-loving Indian community.”The Minorities of South Africa (MOSA) national chairperson and spokesperson, Ronnie Veeran, condemned the post and said MOSA strongly condemns any form of religious or racial intolerance by any grouping over another and will support any initiative to promote social cohesion at the different forays. He said that the distasteful and outrageous comments made by a person born in post apartheid South Africa, will only serve to heighten racial tensions in the country.“This coming from a teacher who is entrusted with shaping young minds is sad, to say the least. How does such a teacher get appointed to a multi-racial school in the first instance? If the teacher harbours such strong racial/religious views why did she take up an appointment at this school in the knowledge that there are teachers and pupils from different racial and religious groupings at the institution?” said Veeran. “Her rantings can only further erode inter-racial harmony at a time when the country faces huge adverse economic times and the need for unity across all lines is required more than ever before. “This matter must be taken to the relevant law enforcement agencies and chapter 9 institutions so that the person responsible for the dastardly comments is brought to book,” added Veeran.The KZN Department of Education spokesperson, Muzi Mhlambi, said the matter would be investigated by the district director. The Human Rights Commission (HRC) has not commented on the matter.