In response to the global coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and President Cyril Ramaphosa’s declaration of a National State of Disaster, Richfield Graduate Institute of Technology will be canceling all graduation ceremonies,  that was scheduled for this year. Stefan Ferreira, CEO of Richfield released a statement saying that they value all of their stakeholders and have taken steps to put the health of their students and staff above everything else. He said that after heavy consideration they made the difficult decision to cancel all graduation ceremonies scheduled for this year and while they understand the personal significance of graduation, they felt that canceling was the most responsible step to take in light of the Covid-19 outbreak as well to protect staff, graduates and their families. The statement further said that Richfield would have hosted 27 graduation ceremonies throughout the country and could not have gone on with them due to the traveling of graduates and their families for the ceremonies and the congregation of large crowds of people. Ferreira said that the cancellation of the ceremonies would not adversely affect this years graduating students as they will receive their graduate status and arrangements will be made for them to receive their qualifications, in due course. He said that Richfield has suspended all contact classes and replaced them with technology-based lessons. He added that Richfield by design is fortunate to be able to switch to digital classes as all students are equipped with free tablets and/or laptops when they register which has the necessary software pre-installed. Due to some strategic partnerships they are in the fortunate position of being able to offer students free access to their Online Learning Management System and Richfield continues to work tirelessly to make this transition as seamless as possible for on-campus students. Ferreira said that Richfield has put guidelines and policies together for staff during this difficult time such as encouraging staff to work from home if they begin to show symptoms of Covid-19 and to get tested to ensure they manage it as tightly as possible. He said that while Richfield is doing their best to flatten the curve of the Covid-19 pandemic they request students, staff and other stakeholders to take steps to reduce the spread of the virus by limiting unnecessary travel, practicing good hygiene by frequently washing hands and only coughing or sneezing into the arms. Ferreira further advised on sharing reputable and truthful information via social media and word of mouth. He said that sharing misinformation is a disservice to the Richfield communities and South Africa as it causes unnecessary panic and leaves others ill-equipped to efficiently deal with the pandemic. More information on Richfields position on the Covid-19 outbreak can be obtained from www.richfield.ac.za. or via WhatsApp: 082 332 1321