In an unprecedented move for South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa called for a nationwide lockdown for 21 days commencing from Thursday, 26 March at 23.59. All South Africans will have to stay at home until midnight on Thursday, 16 April. A nationwide lockdown is necessary to disrupt the chain of transmission of the coronavirus. It will prevent the spread of Covid-19 and save the lives of many South Africans. South Africans need not be afraid but to stay at home during the lockdown. The lockdown comes as a global effort to flatten the curve and reduce infections. To date the World Health Organisation (WHO) statistics reflect 429 000 positive cases worldwide and a death toll of over 19,000. South Africa’s confirmed cases to date is 709. The South African Police Services (SAPS) said that AP Patrollers will be part of the lock down team which will include the Army, SAPS, Metro and Security personnel. The SAPS humbly requests all residents to respect the presidents instructions and stay at home. Only essential services staff will be allowed to go to work and back home. They said, if you are stopped in road blocks you should have a valid reason with justification. If you are arrested, bail will only be considered in 3 months with no exceptions. This is in the best interest of all SA citizens. Unruly behaviour and disrespect towards SAPS members will not be taken lightly. What is a lockdown?  A lockdown is an emergency protocol that requires South Africans to stay at home except for essential purposes. All non essential activities are suspended. The categories of people exempted from this lockdown      •   Health workers in the public and private sector, Emergency personnel, Security services – such as the police, traffic officers, military medical personnel, soldiers and, Other persons necessary for our response to the pandemic.      •   It also includes those involved in the production, distribution and supply of food and basic goods, essential banking services, the maintenance of power, water and telecommunications services, laboratory services, and the provision of medical and hygiene products. Will you be able to leave your house?      •   There is no need for panic, as lockdown does not mean a shutdown. People will still be allowed to get to shops and access essential goods and services but in small numbers. It is up to all of us to minimise our movement.      •   Only undertake essential trips outside your home such as to get food, seek medical care or access supplies.      •   When leaving your home try and go out alone, plan your trip and get in and out of your destination as quickly as possible.      •   Practice hygiene when you go out, wash your hands when leaving home, do so again at your destination and before you depart for home. What services will remain open?       •   Most shops and businesses will be closed.       •   The police, metro police, military and emergency services will continue to operate.      •   Health care services such as hospitals, clinics, doctors, pharmacies and laboratories will remain open.       •   Banks and essential financial and payment services, including the JSE  will be open.      •   Supermarkets will remain open so there is no need to stockpile.      •   Petrol stations will remain open.       •   Companies that are essential to the production and transportation of food, basic goods and medical supplies will remain open. Some things you can do      •   Seek medical care. Hospitals are obliged to issue three months supply of medication. Patients are urged to make arrangements to collect their medications. If you are going to the hospitals, have your hospital appointment card as you will be stopped on the street.      •   Visit the pharmacy      •   Buy grocery and meat. This should be done alone and not as a family.      •   Access banking services      •   Get petrol      •   Collect a social grant. All grants will continue to be paid. To alleviate congestion at payment points, old age pensions and disability grants will be available for collection from 30 and 31 March 2020, while other categories of grants will be available for collection from 01 April 2020. All channels for access will remain open, including ATMs, retail point of sale devices, post offices and cash pay points.     •   Avoid unnecessary travel      •   Temporary shelters that meet the necessary hygiene standards will be identified for homeless people. Sites are also being identified for quarantine and self-isolation for people who cannot self-isolate at home.     •   It is important that you stay connected via the phone, social media or email.      •   Maintain your networks and speak to friends or family regularly.      •   Keep doing enjoyable and relaxing activities such as reading, pc, board or card games, social networking or watching television. Stay informed by getting the facts, not rumours or fake news. Engage children in your care in creative ways; create fun learning activities, play games and try to keep their daily routine going. Stay active by doing simple exercises within your home or garden. Create an exercise plan specifically to suit your environment. What you cannot do      •   No gatherings and loitering are allowed. • Do not leave your house unless you need to in order to buy groceries or seek medical attention What happens if you break the rules Anyone breaking the rules could be punished with imprisonment for up to one month or with a fine. For more information visit: https://sacoronavirus.co.za or join the Department of Health’s WhatsApp group on 0600 123 456. The emergency number is 0800 029 999.  Also read: