The theme for the 2020 International Women’s Day which is observed in March is ‘An equal world is an enabled world’ with the United Nations giving much emphasis on placing women at the forefront, on offering women an equal opportunity, without discrimination and bias. Here in South Africa, we too have come a long way in seeking the recognition and claiming our space within the world. Although there has been progress in this regard, there is still great room to move forward. Within the personal space, we find that women are still violated physically and emotionally.The rape stats that are presented within the international sphere is alarming, with South Africa ranking high on the list. The truth about gender-based violence within our country is disturbing. The fact, that even though we have ‘evolved’ as a society – physical and emotional abuse of women is still rife. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Women at workYes, women have taken on the spotlight in the boardroom – being offered opportunities within a usually male dominated arena. Here is the question, “Do women in the workplace get the same support as their male counterparts do?” Although, there are more opportunities that are now presented for progression, we need to also be aware of the support structure around these opportunities may not be complete.Women at homeIn many homes, there has been a shift in mindset where there is equal and joint responsibility for caring for children, attending to house-hold chores, and daily duties. However, there remains the adverse few who still believe that it is solely the woman’s duty to cook, clean, tend to children and go to work. This brings about an imbalance in the home as well as the relationships at home, and eventual burn-out. Embracing the space of sharing equally is a super important part of growing in a relationship.  Degradation, abuse, emotional bullying and threats lead to the eventual breakdown of a marriage.Strong women support each otherThis is something that I firmly advocate and therefore my coaching niche is serving women and children. Being empowered looks and feels different to each person, depending on where they are in their lives. Support and care comes in different forms, with sisterhood and camaraderie playing a significant part in the process of growth and development.  It is okay to feel down sometimes, it is okay to make mistakes and your support structure should never judge you for that, but rather form a circle that encourages  and supports. There is great talk of women holding their own but, should we not be able to hold each other, very little to no progress will be made in this regard. Gossiping, body-shaming and putting other women down are not a part of the support circle.   So today, I reach out to both those who are silently guilty of this and those who need the support; should your heart tell you that you are guilty of not supporting other women, then make the necessary amends, and should you need support,  reach out to talk to someone you trust.  Make the change today, that is true empowerment.About the columnist: Krsangi Radhe is a neuro-linguistic programming practitioner, time line therapist and coach.  She is also an educator, public relations practitioner and motivational speaker. She is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching. 