The families of Shallcross drive-by shooting victims, Devendren (also known as Lionel) Pillay and Claudene Rampersad said that they want justice to be served on the cold blooded killers. Pillay was the owner of a trucking business while Claudine worked for a call centre. Their funerals took place on Saturday, 14 March. Speaking to the Tabloid Newspapers, a cousin of Pillay, Alistair Varathan, who was at the crime scene said, “We went to the Ridge Shopping Mall to do a deposit for the deceased’s employee. We stopped on Alpine Drive to meet a friend and Lionel and Claudine saw each other. They were speaking to each other on the road. They were close friends. I went a little up the road and noticed a Corolla with four suspicious male occupants passing me. By the time I returned, they were already riddled with bullets,” said Varathan. Lionel was rushed to hospital and he succumbed to his injuries at about 10pm on Thursday, 12 March. He was described by family and friends as a gentle giant who could make anyone laugh even on their worst day. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> A cousin of Rampersad, Sharlene Govender described her as a jovial, loving and kind-hearted person. “She loved dancing. She just started work at a call centre in Shallcross, and she has touched many lives there in this short space of time. She was also a leader of the praise and worship team and she gave her first sermon which was based on the end times,” she said. Rampersad has two children, a son and daughter. Govender further added, “Claudene also took care of another child and gave him a home. Her last message to me was that this child should not walk on the road due to the load shedding.” KZN Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed the incident. “Two people succumbed to their injuries at local hospitals following a drive-by shooting in Shallcross. It is alleged that on Thursday, 12 March at 9pm, a group of people were standing along the pavement on Alpine Drive in Shallcross when a vehicle drove past them. The occupants began firing at the people injuring a female and a male. Both victims aged 35 and 38 were transported via private vehicles to two hospitals,” said Mbele.