A well known movie actor and social media personality says he is disappointed that a magistrate in the Durban Magistrate’s Court   allegedly did not stop or reprimand the defence attorney for using a gay slur. Theshen Naicker, best known for his alter ego “Aunty Sheila” via his attorney, Theasen Pillay has lodged a complaint against attorney Faizal Kara, acting for well known food blogger Imran Omar, at the Legal Practice Council. The legal spat allegedly started after a confrontation in August last year at a social event at Durban’s Pavilion Hotel. Naicker at the time claimed that Omar during the verbal abuse had referred to him as a m&#e Naicker intends suing Omar for R850 000 in the Durban High Court for allegedly verbally abusing him and calling him a m&#e Naicker said he is hurt that the magistrate (allegedly) did nothing to stop Omar’s attorney from using the word m&#e. He claimed that the word was used in a careless and insensitive manner. During argument where Naicker is seeking a protection order against Omar, Kara claimed: “There is nothing wrong about using the word m&#e as it is an everyday word that people have grown up with.” He further stated the word was not defamatory or insulting but it is merely distasteful. Kara in court papers filed in the Durban Magistrate’s Court claimed that Omar was called to the Durban Central police station. ” The respondent (Omar) was questioned. He was not prosecuted. Omar denied that he called the applicant (Naicker) a m&#e,” said Kara. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> In the complaint at the Legal Practice Council, Pillay stated that Kara’s argument was absurd and deranged and that such admissions insult the Constitution, as well as the intention of Parliament when the Protection from Harassment Act had been formulated.” Pillay said he felt compelled to note a complaint against a fellow officer of the court as he strongly believed that he has a duty not to promote continued sexual bias. “The word represents an outright condemnation, ridicule and humiliation of ones constitutionally protected rights. It has no place and should not be tolerated, public morale must eradicate the continued use of the word. The courts and legal system are entrusted to ensure that it directs harsh sanctions on those that refuse to conduct themselves appropriately and tolerantly,” said Pillay.