The Urban Improvements Precincts Company (UIP), joined forces with with City Story, a Non Profit Organisation (NPO) and Catalyx an Exempt Micro Enterprise (EME) to make a change within Central Durban. They recently handed over food parcels  to Silethokuhle Organisation, a non -profit organisation that provides meals for the homeless living in the inner city of Durban. Durban Solid Waste (DSW) and eThekwini Municipality Metro Police also assist the team. Founder and spokesperson of the Silethokuhle Organisation, Nontethelelo Ntshangase, said that the soup kitchen started in 2014 when they used to cook for the homeless in their own space. “My family and I used to prepare an everyday meal for the homeless at our own flat with the help of some supermarkets. As time went by, we then secured a place where we could cook for a large scale, hence, the number of recipients started to increase,” she said. Ntshangase said that the aim of the organisation is to provide meals for the homeless but to also go the extra mile in helping those who do not have identity books in order to restore their livelihood. “Among these homeless people, we have found that some of them are not drug users but have decided to leave their homes because of poor backgrounds and family issues. This is where our organisation mediates and to sends them back home if they are willing to reconcile with their families. We also have social workers from Safer Cities who come and assist us in resolving issues pertaining to social services,” she added. UIP Chairperson, Ebrahim Vadachia said the UIP Co is made out of a group of people who try to improve the environment that they work in and the quality of life of the people in that environment. “We also work closely with the municipal departments, including law enforcement Metro Police and Durban Solid Waste just to make sure that we keep our place clean, and safe while we help those who are less fortunate.  Hence, the meeting that we had recently held was to get in contact with local businesses and try to make amendments to help the local NPO’s, as we work closely with almost all charity organisations within the Durban Central,”  said Vadachia who has been working with Ntshangase for around two years. Vadachia said that Ntshangase, who runs the organisation, contacted the UIP with an appeal that she needed funding and groceries in order to keep the soup kitchen in operation. Ntshangase also works closely with the UIP in finding solutions to assist the homeless.  The UIP Co, with their intern programme with Catalyx, sent five interns to assist Ntshangase and are also conducting a survey of who the homeless are and what their needs are. “This was when we sat with the other stakeholders and came up with a plan as to how we were going to reach out to the organisation. Through the help of the City Story and Catalyx, we managed to recruit 126 internships for the youth who were unemployed and a number of them to help at our various precincts that the UIP Co manages,” said Vadachia. Catalyx spokesperson, Joe White, who is also the implementing partner of the ABSA Youth 4 Employment Service (YES) programme, said that the programme is currently funding 3600 unemployed youth salaries for a year. “The aim of the project is to support small businesses and NPO’s all over the country, who are doing new things in order to gain skills and work experience. This particular NPO by far is the largest number of interns we had since the project started, we usually have 10 to 15 candidates within an organisation,” he said. Programme organiser for the City Story, Michael Van der Mullen, said that City Story looks for projects within the inner city that needs rejuvenation . “We wanted to mobilise employment for the unemployed in the inner city, where we looked at projects in which we were going to support all the eThekwini rejuvenation strategies. Hence, that will make the city a safer, more walkable, cleaner place and a place for better job creation. City Story realised that for the project to be a success when we mobilise the public sector to come alongside the city, we needed an institutional layering. Hence, we looked at land where the city will be involved and all the departments,” he said. Vadachia added that the UIP is committed to work with all role players to assist those in need and to provide the best possible service to the rate payers they serve. Also Read: