On Monday, 9 March as protest action flared in Ladysmith, a WhatsApp message began circulating widely, urging consumers not to drink “water that comes out of the taps because it has been poisoned”. While the message was vague as it did not identify the nature of the purported “poison” or where or how it had been placed in the water supply system, Umgeni Water nevertheless acted swiftly.    In line with water quality testing protocols, Umgeni Water Management sent a staff member the same day to Ladysmith to take samples of potable water that is produced at the Ezakheni Water Treatment Works (WTW). Potable water samples were taken from three areas that are representative of the final treated water leaving the WTW and of reticulation points. Samples were taken from Ezakheni WTW and two reticulation points, namely; Ezakheni Police Station and Ezakheni ML Sultan School.     These reticulation points are fed by Asvoelkop Reservoir and Abattoir Reservoir respectively. Comprehensive testing of the samples to assess water quality and suitability for domestic use began on the evening of 9 March and a report was released on Wednesday, 11 March. These tests were done in Umgeni Water’s ISO 17025 Accredited Laboratory in Pietermaritzburg, and were in conformance with South African National Standards (SANS) 241: 2015 for drinking water quality.     The analytical results, released on Wednesday morning, were as follows: Jabulani Mkhonza, communications manager of uThukela District Municipality said: ” It can, therefore, be concluded from the sampling exercise that data obtained indicates samples of water tested from the Ezakheni Water Treatment Works is suitable for domestic purposes.” Mkhonza reassured residents and consumers that the municipality strives to provide clean and drinkable water. ” There seems to be certain elements who want to create an atmosphere of scare and panic among the public with such a dangerous narrative for whatever reason.  We will continue to refute such fabricated narratives at all cost. As a Water Authority, the UThukela District Municipality recommits itself to providing hygienic and potable water to our communities at all times, working together with Umgeni Water, said Mkhonza. The municipality reiterated the call for responsible citizenship and called on individuals or groups to refrain from sending communities in panic mode solely to instill a sense of fear at the expense of their welfare.