A few days into lockdown and thousands are already hungry and starving. The Caring Sisters Network(CSN) rises to the occasion of the Covid19 Pandemic. Urgent funding is required The Caring Sisters Network (CSN) is a non-profit, philanthropic and humanitarian women’s organisation that rises to the occasion in times of need within the community inside and outside our borders.  We focus on relief and food aid, social welfare, women and youth empowerment and education with special attention to the upliftment of the township communities. During these challenging times, we as South Africans must apply the ideals of Ubuntu – ‘I am because we are’. “Now more than ever it is important to rally behind each other and lend a helping hand to our fellow South Africans who are in need”, said Yasiera Mahomed Suliman, Chairperson of the Caring Sisters Network. According to the Pietermaritzburg Economic Justice & Dignity Group’s latest affordability index, more than half (55.5%) of the population lives below the upper-bound poverty line (R1227 per month). A quarter (25.2%) live below the food poverty line (R561 per month). This is the day to day reality of many South Africans. Just a few days into lockdown and thousands are already feeling the hunger pangs. CSN rises to the occasion of need.  Our CSN COVID-19 Grocery Hamper drive was launched on 21 March (Human Rights Day). We are a COGTA-KZN (Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs-KZN) accredited NGO and have permits for the distribution of our hampers. We will be working with COGTA-KZN and other NGOs to ensure there is no duplication of efforts and the much-needed hampers go out far and wide. 1200 hampers were distributed before lockdown in the areas of Kwa-Mashu, Clairwood, Chatsworth, Marianhill and Phoenix. An order for another 1800 hampers was confirmed over the weekend. This weeks distribution will be in the areas of Chatsworth, Phoenix,  Mayville, Verulem, Kwa Makhuta, Umzinto and a few areas in need that will be designated to us by COGTA. We all are aware of how teamwork can be dreamwork.  We are therefore working with other COGTA accredited NGO’s to attain  diversity in distributions. The Caring Sisters Network is making a humble appeal to you to join us in FEEDING THE HUNGRY AND THE STARVING. Our hampers are R300 each and will suffice a family of 4-5 for at least 2 weeks if not more. Contents:
5kg Maize meal
2lt Oil
2kg Beans
5Kg Sugar
5kg Cake flour
410g Tinned fish
410g Baked beans
100 Teabags
1lt Long life milk
2 Packets instant porridge
2 bars of soap Donations are being accepted in full or part towards a hamper. ”If you can’t feed a hundred people, feed just one” – Mother Teresa For regular updates on the campaign follow the Caring Sisters Network on Facebook and instagram and visit their website for details on their other initiatives www.caringsisters.net