President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday evening, 23 March announced new measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic which included a nation-wide lockdown for 21 days starting from midnight Thursday, 26 March until midnight Thursday, 16 April. Ramaphosa called it a “decisive measure” to flatten the curve of infections and save millions of lives. This, after the President met with the National Coronavirus Command Council and various role-players. Last week, the president declared the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic a national disaster and announced measures to combat the ‘’grave public health emergency. “ Ramaphosa announced that there are 340,000 confirmed cases worldwide and that South Africa’s confirmed cases has increased six-fold in just eight days from 61 cases to 402 cases, and will continue to rise. ” Therefore “immediate, swift and extraordinary action is required if we are to prevent a human catastrophe. It is essential that every person in this country adheres strictly to the regulations that have already been put in place and to the measures that is announced, ” said Ramaphosa. The nation-wide lockdown will be enacted in terms of the Disaster Management Act and will entail the following: Exemptions are as follows: -Health workers in the public and private sectors, emergency personnel, those in security services – such as the police, traffic officers, military medical personnel, soldiers – and other persons necessary for the response to the pandemic. 
-Those involved in the production, distribution and supply of food and basic goods, essential banking services, the maintenance of power, water and telecommunications services, laboratory services, and the provision of medical and hygiene products. A full list of essential personnel will be published. Measures to be implemented: -Individuals will not be allowed to leave their homes except under strictly controlled circumstances, such as to seek medical care, buy food, medicine and other supplies or collect a social grant. Additional measures to be implemented with immediate effect:  -South African citizens and residents arriving from high-risk countries will be placed under quarantine for 14 days. Measures to mitigate the economic impact:  Interventions that will help to cushion society from economic difficulties. This is phase one of the economic response. Further measures are under consideration. Provision of support to the vulnerable: <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Assistance to businesses that may be in distress. “We will act very strongly against any attempts at corruption and profiteering from this crisis. The action we are taking now will have lasting economic costs. In the days, weeks and months ahead our resolve, our resourcefulness and our unity as a nation will be tested as never before. I call on all of us, one and all, to play our part. To be courageous, to be patient, and above all, to show compassion. Let us never despair. For we are a nation at one, and we will surely prevail. May God protect our people. Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika. God bless South Africa, ” said Ramaphosa. Also read: