The search for a missing 16-year-old Isipingo Beach boy ended in tragedy when the his body was washed up on the shore in Winkelspruit, on Monday night (9 March). Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said, “An inquest docket was opened by the  Amanzimtoti police. The Durban Search and Rescue Unit and other role players were called out to Winkelspruit to recover the body of a 16-year-old boy which washed up on the beach. The victim went missing on 7 March. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated.” Benjamin Pillay, a  pupil at Isipingo Secondary School, was reported missing on Saturday, 7 March. He was last seen in the Isipingo Beach area. Speaking to a well-informed source who wished to remain anonymous, it was reported that the boy’s mother identified her son’s body at the scene where other family members were also present. “A missing person’s case was opened at Isipingo SAPS when the boy disappeared on Saturday. Police at Isipingo SAPS worked with family members to follow up on various leads. A call was received about a body that washed up in the South Coast late on Monday. Investigations conducted linked the body to the missing teen and a positive identification by the family concluded the search under tragic circumstances,” said the anonymous source. Fellow pupils and community members were shattered at the news of the teen’s death and took to social media to express their grief with messages and condolences. Dhevan Govindasamy, spokesman, for local security company, PT Alarms, who shared the news of the missing teen’s death on Facebook, said, “Search and Rescue, lifeguards, Isipingo activists and CPF members responded to the scene when news of the recovered body surfaced. The community was closely involved in the case from the time the teen was reported missing with many actively searching for him whilst scores of locals shared the post on social media. The news of the boy’s death has greatly impacted the residents of Isipingo and Isipingo Beach as well as the boy’s school. We are a community in mourning. Another young life has been snuffed out tragically.”