A
groundbreaking partnership between the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health and
the South African National Taxi Association (Santaco) will see about 14 million
people benefit from crucial information about the coronavirus. This translates
to commuters using about 50 000 taxis daily in KZN alone. The DoH said
that this will bring crucial life-saving messages on how to prevent getting
infected with coronavirus, or what to do if they suspect they have its
symptoms. In a meeting
last week between KZN Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu and representatives of
Santaco, an agreement was reached that paves the way for the department to
engage in mass awareness programmes at taxi ranks, and also seek ways to make
hand sanitisers available at every taxi rank. The
partnership will also see some of Santaco’s more than 50 000 minibus taxis
being branded with messages outlining everything there is to know about the
coronavirus – from what the disease is to how it can be prevented, what its
symptoms are, and what people need to do if they exhibit these symptoms. Simelane-Zulu,
who was joined in the meeting by Transport MEC Bheki Ntuli, described the
partnership as a “major boost” in the fight against against the
disease. “We identified the taxi industry as one of the stakeholders that we
needed to speak to and have a partnership with. Because they are people who
already had a vision of working with government, they were very willing to
assist in the fight against coronavirus. “They
had already started on their own, before Government could even engage them, to
make sure that they put measures within their vehicles so that their vehicles
can be safe. The taxi industry, just like the Department of Health, serves the
majority of the population in the province and country. The taxi industry’s
willingness to work with us is heartening, because it means together we will be
able to deal with this virus,” said Ntuli. He said that
stakeholder engagement was “always extremely necessary and
important”. He said that the government was never going to be able to stop
the virus spread on its own. The
department and Santaco agreed to collaborate on other health awareness
exercises, mainly targeting men, who are known for their reluctance to visit
healthcare facilities until it is too late. “For that, there’s no better place
to start than with the taxi industry,” said Simelane-Zulu. Bhoyi Zondi,
Santaco provincial chairperson welcomed the partnership, emphasising that the
taxi industry would not be seeking to profiteer from the situation. “We agreed
that as the taxi industry we are trying to assist commuters. We don’t see the
need to seek to profit from that. We agreed that these messages will be placed
in our vehicles. “In this
province, we have more than 50 000 vehicles, transporting at least 14 million
people every day. That is why government saw it fit to contact us because of
these people. We will also go to every taxi rank in KZN creating awareness, and
dispense hand sanitisers and relevant messages, working hand in hand with the
Department,” said Zondi. Among other
stakeholders, the Department will engage with traditional health practitioners,
organised labour, and private healthcare service providers.