Hollywoodbets Chatsworth Sporting premier reserve team secured second spot in the league after beating champions Crusaders by 57 runs in the final match for the season. The crucial match was played at Crusaders. Sporting scored 214/8 with Deepak Anand scoring an excellent 57 runs off 28 balls, at the top of the order. Theegan Naicker scored an unbeaten 49 runs off 27 balls. In reply Crusaders were restricted to 158 runs with Justin Hooseria taking 3/21 and Sumir Singh claimed 3/16 to put the brakes on Crusaders. Sporting Manager, Jason Sathiaseelan, said the junior team also put in a stellar performance, at the weekend. He said the Hollywoodbets Chatsworth Sporting are the U15 Super Cup champions after a 42 run victory over Reservoir Hills Crimson in the final played at the Chatsworth Oval. “The Sporting lads have now secured the double having already won the U15 league,” Sathiaseelan added. Batting first, Sporting scored 127 off their 30 overs and then bowled out Reservoir Hills for 85 runs. Ryan Naicker claimed an excellent five wickets in the final and contributed with the bat as well while Kamran Naraidu picked up three wickets. “Special mention to experienced coach Elvis Govender, who has guided the team to two titles and an unbeaten run in U15 cricket. Thanks and appreciation to all parents for their wonderful support,” Sathiaseelan said.With only weeks to go, Sporting will have little rest as they prepare for their India tour.Sathiaseelan, said the club is taking both the junior and senior teams as well as parents to Chenai, bringing the touring party to 48. Departure is on 23 March, and the club is still in need of assistance with gear and other apparel. Sathiaseelan said: “The club is looking for sponsors for tracksuits, golf shirts, training outfits and playing shirts. Any help will be appreciated in helping make these dreams come true.”The tour is being arranged by Sunrise Sports Management and Deepak Anand.  For further information on how to sponsor the club, contact Jason on 083 459 0329.