To streamline patient flow and to ensure the safety of their patients, staff, medical practitioners and community Lenmed wishes to advise of the following: Community GPs may test for COVID-9 without contacting the NICD NO laboratory testing for COVID-19 for asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms take place at Lenmed hospitals 80% of patients with COVID-19 will be asymptomatic or have mild symptoms – it is best that these well patients, for their own safety, are managed in the community by the GPs. GPs may now test in the community and no longer need to contact NICD. Patients in this category are advised to call ahead to their GPs and arrange to be assessed, tested and treated outside of hospitals. This is in the best interests of your personal safety. Any person who is tested is considered a ‘Person under Investigation’ (PUI). A PUI with no, moderate or mild symptoms is required to self-isolate until a negative result is obtained. Depending on symptoms, your doctor will guide your treatment plan. About 20% of patients with COVID-19 will experience moderate to severe symptoms, especially difficulty breathing – patients in this category are likely to require hospital admission and are advised to call ahead to the A&E unit to arrange to be assessed. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) has advised that doctors no longer have to contact the NICD prior to testing for COVID-19. Strict procedures apply, but doctors may now test patients who have either been in contact with a confirmed or suspected case of COVID-19 or present with relevant symptoms. Pathology Laboratories at Lenmed hospitals will NOT be testing patients who do not have any symptoms. This is so that hospital-based services have sufficient capacity to manage patients with moderate to severe disease. The hospital’s efforts remain focussed on prioritising the safety of their patients, employees, doctors and community members. Lenmed assures you that their staff and facilities are prepared for the COVID-19 outbreak and that procedures are aligned with the NICD guidelines. They have put in place several measures to ensure that their facilities and emergency units are operating as near normal as possible. Please be assured of the following – • The safety of the patients, employees, doctors and community members is a priority • The staff and facilities are prepared for the COVID-19 outbreak • Lenmed procedures are aligned with the NICD guidelines • Lenmed facilities and emergency units are operating as usual For current news and updates on COVID-19 please visit the NICD website http://www.nicd.ac.za/ or call 080 002 9999.