As South Africans face a national lockdown, I was curious to find out from my dad if he had ever experienced such a state previously.   He recalled that when he was four years old – South Africa faced a dreadful crisis of riots, where he remembers holding his mum’s hand and walking down the road in Clairwood, to receive food parcels handed out by the army.  The difference is that at that time, the riots were inflicted because of human divide, whereas the COVID-19 pandemic has brought humanity to stand together (yet apart) to fight the virus. A lockdown calls for routine, and a clear change of consciousness.  You cannot leave your home when you want to, visit malls and do shopping as you did previously.  Places of worship are closed, visiting family is not allowed – staying safe and staying home is what the new routine has to be.  Embracing this concept is largely dependent on your mindset.  Should you look at the lockdown as a time for personal growth, and a time to spend with your children – then this will be welcomed.  However, if you are going to look for every excuse to go out, then the lockdown will defeat the intended purpose. With a mind-set shift, you need to take responsibility to help the nation – help each other to eradicate and flatten the curve of the Coronavirus. Here are a few ways to mindfully tread through the difficult period of lockdown : •   Hobbies and Goals Time is now at hand to take up something that you have always wanted to pursue.  Should you have always wanted to learn a new skill, then delve further into understanding the skill now.  Look at your goals and measure them – how well have you been doing, and what do you need to do to achieve your goal.  Use this time to grow. • Do not forget physical activity Being at home certainly does not mean that you cannot exercise.  Simple methods of at home work-out routines can be useful to during this time.  Getting in some physical activity everyday will help your endorphins levels rise, make you feel good.    Yoga is also great and can be performed in the comfort of your lounge.  Skipping, burpees, sit-ups and push-ups are easy enough to do at home.  Should you have a home-gym then this is the time to make good use of it. • Nutrition Be mindful of what you eat and the portions during lockdown.  It is so easy to get caught up in preparing delicious meals – with high calorie count and by the end of the lockdown period, you will not be able to account for the kilograms that you have piled on.  A good way to work around this is to follow the same diet as a normal work/school day. • Mindfulness Creating positive thoughts is critical during this time.  Being in the moment, and devoting time to meditation will help clear the mind and present opportunity for positive energy to flow within yourself and your home.  Whenever, you feel sad – or even in a state of despair – stop, and consciously bring your thoughts back to positive thoughts of gratitude and love. Stay safe by staying at home.  Take good care of yourself, and your family – you are important. Krsangi Radhe is a neuro-linguistic programming practitioner, time line therapist and women and children empowerment life-coach.  She is also an educator, public relations practitioner and motivational speaker.