The World Health organisation (WHO) has advised people to keep up to date on the latest information on the COVID-19 outbreak. Most people who have become infected experience mild illness and recover, but it can be more severe for others. You can take care of your health and protect others by: • Regularly and thoroughly clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand rub or wash them with soap and water. Washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand rub kills viruses that may be on your hands. • Maintain at least 1 metre (3 feet) distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. When someone coughs or sneezes they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth which may contain virus. If you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the COVID-19 virus if the person coughing has the disease. • Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth. Hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses. Once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth. From there, the virus can enter your body and can make you sick. • Follow good respiratory hygiene. Cover your mouth and nose with your bent elbow or tissue when you cough or sneeze. Then dispose of the used tissue immediately. Droplets spread virus. • Stay at home if you feel unwell. If you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention and call in advance. Follow the directions of your local health authority. This will also protect you and help prevent spread of viruses and other infections. • Avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals and surfaces in contact with animals. • Stay informed on the latest developments about COVID-19. According to United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) the corona virus is large in size where the cell diameter is 400-500 micro and for this reason any mask prevents its entry. The virus does not settle in the air but is grounded, so it is not transmitted by air. Coronavirus when it falls on a metal surface, will live 12 hours, so washing hands with soap and water well enough helps. Corona virus when it falls on the fabric remains 9 hours, so washing clothes or being exposed to the sun for two hours meets the purpose of killing it. The virus lives on the hands for 10 minutes, so putting an alcohol sterilizer in the pocket meets the purpose of prevention. If the virus is exposed to a temperature of 26-27 °C, it will be killed, as it does not live in hot regions. Also drinking hot water and sun exposure will help. Staying away from ice cream and eating cold is important. Gargling with warm and salt water kills the tonsils’ germs and prevents them from leaking into the lungs. Adherence to these instructions fulfills the purpose of preventing viruses.