The CEO of an international call center based in UMhlanga was questioned by SAPS on Thursday, 26 March after fake permits were allegedly issued to employees at the call center.The permits were to be used by employees to enable them to continue working during the 21 day lockdown, against the spread of Covid-19 around the country. The call center which allegedly does not fall under the essential services list was said to have issued the permits on Thursday, 26 March, instructing their staff to report to work the following day (Friday, 27 March) which was day one of the lockdown. An employee who spoke to Tabloid Newspapers on the basis of anonymity said, “I was advised to fetch my permit at work on Friday however I decided not to go because I heard from my other colleagues that the permits were fake. They have tried several times to get the company under the essential services list and were declined twice. They have also tried to get us to work from a nearby hotel for the period of the lockdown, they said we would need to provide our own food and the daily routine would be to walk to work every day and sleep at the hotel. Their plans failed when a meeting was held with the staff and their offer was declined.” “I haven’t been to work because no proper documentation has been given to us to state that we can work during the lockdown and furthermore the company does not fall under essential services. Companies that put their workers lives at risk during such a pandemic should be dealt with accordingly. It’s not just the worker that will be infected but they will go and infect their families and before you know it an entire community has this virus, we should be working towards bringing it to a stop and not spreading it further, ” added the employee. Other workers from the call center took to Twitter and were vocal about the company illegally forcing its workers to work, while another company also based in uMhlanga allegedly promised their workers a reward of R750 in cash if they worked during the 21 day lockdown. A worker who spoke to Tabloid Newspapers stated, “We were told to work and they will give us R750 in cash, but also increased our working hours from 7hrs 30min to 10hrs a day. They said they will prepare the necessary documentation for those that don’t come to work during this period.” The employee who suffers from a chronic illness said she was told to bring medical proof that she has an illness. “I am not well and chances of people with any form of sickness surviving the coronavirus are slim due to their immune systems being weak. I don’t know if I will still have a job after 21 days but I can’t put my life and that of my family at risk. It’s not about the money it’s about my life,” said the worker. The company issued a statement that said: “We are aware of comments circulating on social media regarding us operating during the Governments lockdown period. Because of the nature of some of the work we do and after following all processes prescribed by the Disaster Management Act regulations, we have been designated by government as an essential services provider for certain areas of our business. Due to this we are operating a much reduced service to our customers. We sincerely thank those working hard to ensure certain key infrastructure remains operational during this period. The work you are doing is very important as we fight this virus together. The well-being of our colleagues remains our concern and we continue to exercise hygiene protocols as recommended.” According to the government’s Essential Services List for Covid-19, Telecommunication infrastructure and services forms part of essential services. However,  the company was not reachable for further comment besides what was issued on the statement.