Government is treating income taxpayers – who are already shouldering 52% of SA’s tax burden, compared to the contribution from VAT (26%) and companies (16%) – very gently in this Budget. There was no hike in the VAT rate, no once-off tax levy and no hikes  in the personal income tax rate.Personal income tax brackets will be changed so that individual taxpayers will pay around R2 billion less in income tax. The changes will mean that someone earning R460 000 a year will see their taxes reduced by nearly R3 400 over the next year.Government to slash spending Mboweni announced plans to reduce the state employee wage bill by more than R160 billion over the next three years “Government recognises that public-service employees should be fairly remunerated, but is obligated to balance compensation demands with the broader needs of society as reflected in the budget. Civil servants’ salaries have grown by about 40 percent in real terms over the past 12 years, without equivalent increases in productivity.”It wants to lower the wage bill R37.8 billion in the next year, with R54.9 billion in 2021/22 and R67.5 billion in 2022/23.Civil servant perks will also be reduced, including an end to the current “wasteful” subsidence and travel system. Government will “replace” its current cell phone policy for civil servants, and require economy class travel for all domestic flights, “except for exceptional circumstances”. Spending cuts include: • R15 billion less for human settlements over the next three years. • Public transport spending is reduced by R13.2 billion over the next three years, mainly on allocations to the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) and the public transport network grant.  • R5.2 billion less for education infrastructure. • The defence budget has been cut by 0.2%, while police will be getting 2.8% more, and the courts and prisons 3.5%. With a budget of R106 billion, police is now getting more than defence, law and prison combined. • Some of South Africa’s overseas missions will be closed and international embassy staff will be reduced.Petrol price hikes The fuel levy has been increased by 16c, and the levy for the Road Accident Fund goes up by 9c. The fund will face a total deficit of R593 billion by 2022/23, and it is now government’s biggest liability after Eskom. The total tax on 93 octane petrol in Gauteng will be increased to R5.88 a litre, and to R5.74 on diesel. This means that tax is now 37% of the petrol price and 39% of the diesel price.Emissions taxThe vehicle emissions tax rate for passenger cars will increase from R95 to R120 per gram of carbon dioxide emissions per kilometre (gCO2/km) and to R160 gCO2/km for double cabs on 1 April. This tax is paid on new vehicles sold. Treasury is investigating an annual carbon dioxide tax on all vehicles, which could be levied when you buy your annual car licence. Plastic bag levy will more than double, straws will also cost more from next yearGovernment proposes to raise the plastic bag levy from 12 cents to 25 cents per bag effective 1 April. Levies on single-use plastic straws, packaging and utensils may also be levied from next year. Energy-inefficient light bulbs to cost much From 1 April, the incandescent light bulb levy will be increased by R2 from R8 to R10, to encourage the uptake of more energy-efficient light bulbs. Government is also considering product taxes on electrical and electronic waste.  Higher tax cap on salaries earned overseasThe cap on the exemption of foreign remuneration earned by South African tax residents will be increased to R1.25 million per year from 1 March.Tax-free savings accountsThe annual limit on contributions to tax-free savings accounts will be increased from R33 000 to R36 000 from 1 March 2020. Vaping taxFor the first time, heated tobacco products will be taxed. The tax will be calculated on the tobacco used – at a rate of 75% of the tax on cigarettes. Electronic cigarettes that does include tobacco, though they may include nicotine, will be taxed from next year. Sin-tax hikesWhile other sin taxes have been largely increased in line with inflation (at around 4.5%), the excise tax on sparkling wine has been hiked by 6%, tobacco and cigars the is 7.5%.Transfer duties have been hikedFor the first time since 2017, the brackets to calculate transfer duties on the sale of property have been hiked. No transfer duty will be liable on the purchase of property with a value below R1 million.Social grants go up While children will get more, the total number of welfare beneficiaries is expected to increase by almost one million, to about 19 million, by 2022/23. Old age, war veterans, care dependency and disability grants go up by R80; R40 for foster care; and child support goes up by R20.New state bankDeputy minister of finance David Masondo said that a new state bank will consolidate all the “quasi state banks” owned by government, including the Post Bank and various provincial banks. The new bank will help poor, rural people and small businesses to get access to finance, he added. — Source: Businessinsider.