Residents of Umgudulu Informal Settlement in Reservoir Hills took to the streets on Monday night blockading the M19, demanding water. They say that their water supply was cut on Sunday. They fear that with the spread of Coronavirus, they might be in danger. According to Reservoir Hills Ratepayers Association chairperson, Ish Prahladh, the water was restored on Tuesday in some of the areas.It is alleged that a burst water pipe on Whittaker Avenue, is what caused the interruption of the water supply. Prahladh said that tankers were seen in some areas, on Mclarty Road and on Drewstead Road. “These areas also had their water restored on Tuesday after numerous attempts to get through to the municipality,” Prahladh said.He said that on Tuesday night, he tried contacting the municipality but was told that the matter is currently in progress and has been escalated to the control department to assist urgently. On Wednesday morning, Prahladh alleged that the only thing that needed to be done for the water to be restored, was to open a certain valve.“Riddick and Munro Roads are still waiting for water to be restored. It’s been over two days. I could not get proper feedback from the city water department, as to when a plumber will be sent out to repair the pipe and restore the water supply. When you report the problem, you get the same reply every time,” said Prahladh.He added that the municipality is proving negligence, especially with the scare of coronavirus. “Our taps have run dry, this happens at such a bad time when we are told to wash our hands regularly. How do we do this with no water,” said Prahladh.He alleged that there was an internal issue between contractors and the municipality, stating that is why the matter is not getting resolved in time. “We were told that the municipality is having a problem getting sub-contractors to do the work as they are short staffed, sub-contractors do not want to work with the municipality because they do not pay,” Prahladh elaborated. Prahladh said that attempts to get the ward councillor to assist have also failed. “The only person who has tried to help is Sagar Sing who is a PR councillor,” said Prahladh.The Westville Weekly Gazette tried to get a comment from ward councillor, Xolani Nala, but to no avail. A comment from eThekwini Municipality was still forthcoming at the time of going to print