The Minister of Health, Dr Zwelini Mkhize confirmed on 27 March that South Africa has 1170 positive cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) . This is an increase of 243 new Covid-19 cases from the previous day. The total number of tests conducted to date is 28 537. Deaths due to Coronavirus Dr Mkhize clarified the issue of Covid-19 deaths that were reported in the Western Cape on 27 March.   “ We reported that two deaths had occurred as a result of the Covid-19 virus. The first patient was a 48 year old female who tested positive for Covid-19 on 23 March. She was suffering from pulmonary embolism, meaning she had an underlying disease.  “The second patient who died was a suspected coronavirus case based on her clinical presentation. This was a 28 year old female who had presented at the hospital in respiratory distress. At the time of presentation she was hypoxic. She was intubated and transferred to hospital at 3am on 27 March). On arrival in ICU, she was declared dead. The clinical picture was suggestive of Covid-19 and therefore a test was conducted. Her laboratory results were received at 17.20pm  and were confirmed negative. Her immediate family was also tested and they are also negative. She is therefore no longer considered a Covid-19 case. “ said Mkhize.  This means there is only one confirmed death caused by Covid-19 in South Africa. Health workers that managed the patient were debriefed and counselled. Dr Mkhize said that he is aware that the public interest around Covid-19 may end up making the medical staff feel like they did not perform their duties with outmost care.  “As a clinician myself, I want to reassure them that making such a diagnosis on presentation is in line with our plea to them to keep a high index of suspicion so as not to miss a diagnosis of Covid-19. This is common practice, medical doctors often make a diagnosis based on a clinical presentation and physical examination of a patient. They then conduct further tests to confirm or disprove the diagnosis. In this instance, doctors and l health workers involved exercised clinical judgment and took extra precaution in managing the patient. We support this approach,  “ said Mkhize.  He appreciated all the health workers who were treating the patients. He also urged them to remain courageous and focused whilst assuring all health workers , who remain in the frontline of the pandemic,  that government would do everything to provide the support required for them to execute their duties.  ‘”Overwhelming as circumstances may be, we ask you to keep up the fight. This is only the beginning and your commitment assures us that we will overcome, “ said Mkhize.  Status report of Covid-19 in South Africa: Clinical observations that are of concern:    1.The infection of people with underlying concomitant diseases is increasing as,  illustrated by the Covid-19 patient that has passed away in the Western Cape. Dr Mkhize urged citizens to be vigilant, protect themselves and not unnecessarily be exposed by making contact with a lot of people. It is important to remain at home,  create a distance between yourself and anyone, including family members, that are unwell.  Some underlying medical diseases that make people vulnerable: WHO information sharing meeting with Ministers of Health 
On the afternoon of 27 March,  WHO hosted an information sharing virtual meeting with Ministers of Health from all over the world. This follows the G20 leaders virtual meeting that President MC Ramaphosa attended with other world leaders. Various informative presentations were conducted by WHO and different countries which included a series of questions that Health Ministers also responded to. 
Dr Mkhize said: “This pandemic is a major threat to all countries and we must join our hands together to fight it. One of the important factors confirmed that there is no proven therapy for Covid-19. “
At this stage, there is ongoing therapeutic research and vaccine trials at different stages of progress. There are 50 different candidates of vaccines that are in their early stages. The WHO estimated that it may take a minimum of 18 months to have a vaccine that is confirmed. South African institutions are also participating in the global research program in search of a solution to the Covid-19, under the guidance of WHO.