The embattled Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, was yesterday (Monday, 23 March) lambasted by a judge again – this time over her quest to investigate the tax affairs of former president, Jacob Zuma. Mkhwebane failed to convince the Gauteng High Court that the applicant, the SA Revenue Service (SARS), was obligated to release Zuma’s tax records to her office. Mkhwebane had decided to investigate Zuma’s alleged payment of R1 m a month by Royal Security boss, Roy Moodley, after the Democratic Alliance had lodged a complaint with her. The alleged payment of millions of rands to Zuma first surfaced in the book, The President’s Keepers, authored by Jacques Pauw, about four-years-ago. In a scathing judgment, Judge PM Mabuse ordered that the Public Protector pay 15 percent of the costs from her own pocket. According to judgment, the nub of the two aspects in the matter were: 1) Whether the Public Protector was either right or wrong in issuing a subpoena to a senior official from SARS to disclose Zuma’s tax information to her. 2) Or whether the Public Protector should have first tested the water via the high court by seeking an order from a judge to compel SARS to provide the information to her office. It emerged from the judgment that the Public Protector did not approach the high court for an order. Said Judge Mabuse: “SARS had informed the Public Protector that it was against the  law, to divulge taxpayers information to her.  SARS attempted to break the impasse by inviting the Public Protector to obtain a court order to confirm her understanding of the law. The Public Protector refused to do so and raised financial constraints (that her office was financially under resourced) as a reason. SARS also proposed that the parties should seek counsel’s advice about the matter. SARS undertook to fund the bill for the legal opinion. That proposition was rejected by the Public Protector.” The judge remarked that the Public Protector had litigated in bad faith. “She sent a letter to SARS that she had managed to source funds to obtain a second legal opinion from a different counsel. Now all of a sudden she has the funds. She failed to uphold the Constitution. The Public Protector was prepared to litigate  recklessly, She acted improperly in flagrant disobedience of the Constitution and the law. Despite the fact the second legal opinion was dated 7 March 2019, she sat with it from May, June, July, August, September, October and November 2019 without informing SARS (which was not invited to the meeting with her counsel) about it, ” said Judge Mabuse.