Residents from all parts of Phoenix on Thursday, 12 March, came out in droves to oppose the development of a bus terminal which forms part of eThekwini Municipality’s Intergrated Rapid Public Transport Network (IRPTN), at the Rydalvale grounds. The grounds are used for major social and sports events. Action was taken by residents following grading works that were done on a section of the grounds in the past two weeks. The purpose of the meeting on Thursday night was to update residents on the Go Durban project of its current stage and hear residents grievances regarding the Rydalvale grounds which was going to be used as a bus terminal. Present at the meeting were various representatives of ward 49, local councillors, activists, community leaders and eThekwini Go Durban officials. Furious residents were vocal in stating that the project will not go on. The meeting took a wrong turn when the irate residents vehemently prevented the Ward 49 councillor Tino Pillay from addressing them. They expressed anger at the process in which the project was carried out to date, with some residents stating that all other grounds have been taken away for developments and Rydalvale grounds was one of the very few recreational grounds left in Phoenix. Calm was restored when the Project Manager for Go Durban, Rocky Herman announced that the Rydalvale grounds will no longer be used as a bus terminal, and an alternative site opposite the grounds has been identified for construction of the bus terminal. Residents said the grounds were not only used for major social events such as fairs, festivals and concerts but for sports by the local youth as well as various driving schools in the area. A resident Shereen Naicker said she was very pleased that the grounds will no longer be used as a bus terminal. “Rydalvale grounds has been here for many years and is used by religious organisations, NPO’s, NGO’s and community based organisations to host events. I’m glad that it wont’ be used for other reasons but for what it was intended for – a play field and sports field for our children and a place to bring together members of the community, friends and family during events,” said Naicker. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers Councillor Pillay said: “The meeting became very heated and unprofessional because people came here with a different agenda. They didn’t come to listen to the matter at hand but came to attack me personally as a ward councillor which I feel was very unprofessional. The initial issue at hand was that Rydalvale grounds was going to be utilised for the Go Durban project. After much consultation with the Department for Go Durban, they have retracted and will remove the turning facility to the opposite field behind the grounds and will retain the sports field as is. “The bonus is that Ashvale Road will be widened to accommodate the traffic flow during events held at this ground, which is a big plus because if they weren’t prepared to do the turning point, they wouldn’t have touched the single lane – so it’s a win-win for everyone concerned and I’m happy that it got out to the people that Phoenix will still have the project and it will still be beneficial for all. The transport system will be a massive plus for residents and the sportsfield will remain as an events sportsfield,” added Pillay.