EThekwini Municipality has joined the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) wave by launching the Innovation Co-lab Durban at the uMkhumabne Entrepreneurial Centre, in Cato Manor on Wednesday, 04 March. The co-lab is the first of it kind in KwaZulu-Natal. The Municipality, together with the Department of Science and Innovation, Technology Innovation Agency and the private sector, have joined forces to invest money and resources to make the Innovation Co-lab a success. The lab will house experts who will provide much needed technical skills to the surrounding business community and has digital training rooms for various classes such as software, design thinking, coding and robotics. The chief executive officer of Innovate Durban, Aurelia Albert, said that they were set up by the municipality to provide, build and support innovators in Durban. “This lab is the first physical space we have set up to allow innovators a safe space where they can come together to co-create, co-design and give solutions for their communities and their businesses. Furthermore, to create a space where they can play with the latest tools and technology around the 4IR, and also build skills that are needed for the future,” said Albert. Albert highlighted that the lab will provide a space for the community where they can collaborate with different creative ideas hence they named it co-lab. The co-lab will also serve to kill misconceptions about the 4IR. Shunnon Tulsiram head of the Economic Development department at the University of Kwazulu-Natal said: “The innovative co-lab is to prove that it is not just for the educated population with tertiary qualifications, it is also to show that jobs can be created. Opening such facilities gives the community an opportunity to skill and create jobs for themselves.” The eThekwini Municipality said that the Innovative Co-lab in Cato Manor brings technology to the doorsteps of previously disadvantaged communities and is a solution to unlocking economic opportunities. “Traveling long distances to access these facilities is now going to be the thing of the past,” said Msawakhe Mayisela, the spokesperson of the municipality.