An internationally respected HIV/AIDS researcher and scientist, has expressed concern in the wake of the coronavirus (also known as Covid-19) which is sweeping the world, that about 3 million South Africans stricken with HIV, are not taking the life saving antiretrovirals (ARVs). Professor Salim Abdool Karim, a director at the Centre for the Aids Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA), in Durban,  pointed out that at least 500 000 of them have a low CD4 count (low immunity). “They are at risk and would probably get much sicker if they are hit by Covid-19.  The mortality rate among such patients could be similar to that of the older patients in China,” said Karim. Karim added that the National State of Disaster and the 21 day national lockdown, announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa are in place to curb the Covid-19 virus from spreading like wildfire.
The national lockdown will kick in from midnight on 26 March and will see the country come to a standstill until 16 April. Said Karim: “One must understand that when one person is infected with the virus, another five people are also infected. Therefore if 1 000 people are stricken with the disease then our health authorities will be dealing with 5 000 infections. The steps have been taken as a matter of urgency to prevent our health facilities from being overwhelmed and to protect all South Africans.” The Academy for Science of South Africa agreed with Karim’s views. The academy said people living with HIV, who don’t use ARVs, are eight times more likely to end up in hospital with flu than the average member of the population. According to the academy, the mortality rate among HIV/AIDs patients is also three times higher. However, Karim emphasised that the country’s 5 million HIV-positive patients who are using ARVs have the same chance of getting flu as any member of the population. ” They also don’t become sicker than the average person. Therefore it is crucial that all people stricken with HIV/AIDS take ARVs to boost their immune system,” said Karim. South Africa also has a high TB rate. According to the World Health Organisation, in 2017 the county had more than 300 000 TB patients. It is estimated that more than half of them are also HIV-positive. Professor Rob Warren, of the Medical Research Council in Cape Town said people with lung diseases are more vulnerable to contracting Covid-19. “However, we don’t know what the interaction between TB and Covid-19 is going to be. We also don’t know what’s going to happen if the three pathogens (HIV, TB and Covid- 19) are in the lungs,” he said. Also Read: