No one wants to think about death, but planning for end of life, in as far as we can, actually helps us come to terms with it better. Drawing up a living will is an important practical part of this process and can bring a sense of reassurance to you and your family. South African law recognises the freedom of testation and only a person of age of 16 years and older may make a will. The condition is that he or she has the mental capacity to appreciate the nature and effect of his or her act. Even though a person has a freedom of making a will such a will should not be illegal, immoral, and vague or contrary to the constitution. Unlike a will, or last will and testament, which stipulates certain directives after your death, a living will relates to your end-of-life wishes while you are still alive. In a living will, you give certain instructions in the event of a grievous medical condition that would render you unable to make or express your own decisions. Living wills are most often used to state that, should there be no reasonable chance of recovery, you do not wish you be kept alive through artificial life support. They are also called advanced health care directives. The difference between a ‘living will’ and ‘last will and testament’ Living will• A living will gives directive, expression and consent to whether a person can be subjected to any further medical treatment, resuscitation or be kept alive by any artificial apparatus. ½ This occurs when he or she is unable or competent to give such instruction themselves, usually in instances where a person is terminally ill or permanently unconscious.• A Living Will is executed when a person cannot give consent to medical treatment. Last will and testament• A person has the freedom to make a living will and last will and testament.• A last will and testament is executed when a testator passes away. Why bother with a living will?Many people do not like the idea of their lives being prolonged when there is no reasonable quality of life or hope of recovery, as in cases where a person is in a vegetative state but is being kept alive with artificial life support. Having a formal document where your wishes are clearly stated can be a gift to family members who otherwise have to make the anguished decision themselves.Prolonging life unnecessarily is highly distressing for loved ones, and the medical costs involved can place a financial burden on your family. In some cases, patients have been kept alive for years on life support because there was no clear directive about their wishes. As with a last will and testament, it becomes more important to have one the older we get, but anyone over 18 should consider getting a living will. With regards to potential organ donation, it is especially important that younger people have living wills so that, should they die, their healthy organs can be harvested to give someone else a new chance at life. Advantages of drafting a living will• It can prevent medical debt• The purpose of a living will is to assist the family or whoever is left behind with the difficult decision of whether to consent to subjecting their loved ones to more medical treatment or artificial apparatus.• Even if there is a medical aid the sheer expense of medical care to keep your loved one alive can be extraordinarily high.• A living will can prevent your family being saddled with massive medical debt for years to come.• A living will removes the uncertainty.• A living will preserves your dignity. Every person has the right to life, privacy and dignity in terms of the constitution, and even though there is a limit, these rights are protected by the constitution. A person s dignity and integrity are preserved through proper planning.Everyone has the right to have his or her dignity left intact even when he or she has no control of their body or has no mental capacity to make these decisions at the time. South African law recognises that a person can decide whether to accept or refuse medical treatment. Although this is not suicide, suicide is not a crime in terms of the South African law, but assisted suicide is still a criminal offence. Both wills are similar in drafting and must conform with the requirements in terms of Section 2 of the Wills Act but differ in contents.A last will and testament must not be regarded as a living will as they are executed at different events or time. In recent years the medical fraternity have been confronted with legal challenges when it comes to making such a decision and in certain instances have been faced with lawsuits.A clear expression of your wishes in a living will assists medical practitioners when making such decisions, but must be approached with caution or seek advice from South African Medical Association (SAMA) if faced with a living will. A clear expression assists the doctors to justify their conduct when faced with having to make a decision especially with terminally ill patients or be subject to disciplinary action by Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA).It is important that the draftsman familiarise themselves with the law and express the directive clearly to avoid confusion. You can write down your end-of-life plans and have your attorney draft it legally. The procedure to draft a living will is same as that of a Last Will and Testament. The living will must be signed and dated by the person making the will and witnessed by two witnesses.Should you require assistance in regards to the above, kindly contact our office to set up an appointment in which the relevant steps required in relation thereto will be discussed in detail.Disclaimer: this article is correct as at the time of going to press however it is no substitute for a consultation with an attorney. TEL: 031 811 9693/4, Conveyancing: 031 828 0564, Litigation: 031 828 0562/ 031 828 0561EMAIL: luckylaw@rocketmail.com or conveyancing.luckylaw@gmail.com or litigation.luckylaw@gmail.com