An 81-year-old Fitty Park grandmother was brutally beaten with a piece of fire wood in her home on Sunday night, 20 September. Ezakheni Police is investigating a case of house robbery and grievous bodily harm, after Thokozile Hadebe was badly beaten by an unknown attacker. Her right arm was broken in two places and her left arm was also damaged. In an exclusive interview with the Ladysmith Herald, Hadebe said: “My whole body is covered in wounds and bruises. When I cry from the pain, I can’t even wipe my own tears.” Hadebe was asleep in her room, when she heard the dogs barking. Her attacker beat the dogs and started breaking down the door. Hadebe did everything in her power to keep her attacker out of her room, but the man managed to break down the door. “I tried to call for help. All I can remember is the sound of the wood beating down on my body,” cried Hadebe. The attacker managed to steal her phone and pension, which helps to feed her family. “My heart is so sore, I never thought that something like this would happen to me. One always hears these stories over the radio, but never did I think, I would be attacked in my own homestead,” she said. The horrific ordeal has sent shock waves through the Fitty Park rural community that is situated in the Helpmekaar area, about 30 minutes from Ladysmith. “I can’t explain to you, how this incident has affected me and the community. There has never been such a brutal attack on senior citizens in the area which is usually peaceful,” said councilor Bhehkowakhe Majola. Hadebe is described as an active member in the community who attends meetings to improve the community. Majola and his team visited the grandmother after they were informed about the brutal assault. “Our tribal leaders have also been informed about the matter and will assist the family.” Hadebe’s family told the Ladysmith Herald that they are grateful that their grandmother is still alive. “Things could have been worse, he could have killed her,” said a family member. Hadebe is being cared for by family members, while her arms heal. She explained that she does not think that she will ever be the same again and that things have changed for her. “All my life I have been staying in Fitty Park, never did I think someone would attack and hurt me like this,” said the grandmother. Majola said that the incident has been incredibly upsetting and he will ensure that the police will make an arrest. “From what I understand, Hadebe does not know her attacker, but with the help of the community, we will assist the police in making an arrest and ensuring that this person goes to jail,” said Majola. Ezakheni Police appeals to the community to come forward with any information that might assist in the investigation. Police can be contacted on 086 00 10 111.