Tributes and tears flow for an extraordinary activist following the shocking news of his death during the country’s coronavirus crisis In the 1970s, thousands of students across Greater Durban took to the streets to protest against apartheid, a policy of racial politics and separate development introduced by the National Party after the Afrikaner political party won the whites-only election in 1948. Among the militant demonstrators were medical student, Vejay Ramlakan from Chatsworth, and the love of his life, teacher-trainee Sandy Africa of Sparks Estate. The journey of this political couple began at a Frelimo Rally at Currie’s Fountain and continued at a safe house in Merebank, a hot-bed of resistance politics in the city’s southern suburb, to a dramatic special branch police raid that put them into solitary confinement detention without their toddler love-child, named Rosa.This celebrated couple went on to achieve greatness in their political pact to turn the apartheid administration upside-down and contribute to creating a democratic, multiracial society. Sadly, one of them, Vejaynand Indurjith Ramlakan, did not live out his hard-earned retirement to at least another score of years. The doctor-politico who gave up a good life to attend to the around-the-clock medical needs of his commander-in-chief, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, succumbed to a heart attack at the Fourways Hospital in Johannesburg last Thursday night. He was 62-years-old. News of his untimely death was greeted with grief, deep sadness and shock and many took to Facebook to highlight his distinguished struggle-era medical and military career, and more especially as Mandela’s lead doctor. His wife, Dr Sandra Africa, has also distinguished herself in her own activist-academic right. As an associate professor of political science of the University of Pretoria, she was appointed assistant director of the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF) in 2017. Over the past few years, she travelled back home to visit her family. In the same year when Dr Africa took up her new posting in Switzerland, her husband least expected that his brilliantly written book, Mandela’s Last Years, The True Story of Nelson Mandela’s final journey, by the head of his medical team, Vejay Ramlakan, would cause a major national controversy and uproar. Mandela’s widow, Grace Machel, threw a curved ball at her ailing husband’s personal physician and threatened lawsuit against the author and the publishers. Penguin Random House had voluntarily withdrew the 245-pager insider story of the world’s most admired man from book stores and cancelled all launches where Dr Ramlakan was to meet his fellow political travellers and book lovers and autograph the final product of his tireless work of chronicling Mandela’s twilight years under constant medical supervision and care. Graca Simbine, the only woman in the world to have married two iconic revolutionary presidents, was widowed after her Frelimo leader husband, Mozambican head of state, Samora Machel, died in a mysterious plane crash near the SA border in 1986. The mother of two married Mandela at his 80th birthday on 18 July 1998. Ironically, the banned Frelimo Rally at Durban’s Currie’s Fountain in September 1974, a celebration of Mozambique’s independence over Portuguese colonial rule, where Ramlakan and his medical SRC students were sjambokked and beaten up by security police, had come to haunt him via Graca Machel’s objection to the book sales and complaint to the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA). When we met recently in Johannesburg to explore a revised version of the ‘’banned’’ book, Ramlakan recalled how this terrifying incident had changed the course of his life: “As president of the Natal Medical School’s Students’ Representative Council, we joined the pro-Frelimo celebration. But as we were walking with our students towards the stadium, a group of policemen jumped out of their vehicles and began assaulting. I was very lucky to have escaped to continue my work against the State.” While studying and qualifying as a doctor, Ramlakan was recruited into the ANC’s outlawed military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK – Spear of the Nation) in 1977 and underwent training in Swaziland. As a cadre in Operation Butterfly aimed at