Ward 66 councillor, JP Prinsloo, will not be contesting the upcoming local government elections in 2021 as he bows out of politics. The Bluff councillor announced his resignation from office on Monday, 31 August. Prinsloo said that after being a public servant, for the past four years, he felt that it was time to step aside and explore other ventures. “In the best interest of my family and our new business I have had to make the difficult but necessary decision to dedicate all my time to my personal, family and business life,” Prinsloo said. His last day as the ward 66 councillor will be on 30 September. Prinsloo’s resignation means that a by-election will have to be held, where the Bluff community will be able to vote for their new ward councillor. “Due to the coronavirus I cannot confirm dates at this time but it would most likely be before the end of 2020. I have faith that the DA selection process will select a suitable candidate to stand in my place and build on all our achievements. I hope that you will support this person like you have supported me,” Prinsloo said. In his tenure Prinsloo has achieved a lot for the residents of Bluff including an international tourism award and becoming a preferred tourism destination and multiple infrastructure upgrades like the building of the Wentworth Youth centre. He was instrumental in several beach upgrades, formulating developmental plans for the Bluff community including the precinct development, showgrounds and VR Park development. He expressed his gratitude to his colleagues and the community for their support. “There is so much more that we have achieved together,” Prinsloo said. He added: “I am truly grateful for everything that I have learnt and the support that this incredible community has provided me. My parting political message is to not let small political parties and interests groups decide your future and the future of the community based on fear and an idea of separate development. The Bluff, like many parts of South Africa, is diverse in many respects, not just race, and deserves political leadership that is honest, progressive, hardworking and aims to build unity and not sew division along socially constructed lines.”