We are all feeling the wrath of the pandemic, nobody is exempt. That has been a thought that has kept me afloat during the past week, as South Africans took a big step with pupils returning to the classrooms and emotions running high with young children trying to cope with new systems of teaching and learning. The economy has suffered a great knock, friends and families have lost loved ones (either due to Covid-19 or other causes during this time) and were unable to mourn as would normally happen. Weddings, festivities and get-togethers were also placed on hold. Now that we are easing back into a new (current) reality, there is still apprehension in every step. I was chatting to a relative the other day who shared that her small business had really taken a dip during levels 4 and 5 of our national lockdown. She was concerned that perhaps, as the economy is now opening, there may be a chance for a further hard lockdown and business will once again suffer. On one hand, we are all dependent on work to pay bills and see the days through yet on the other hand, life in itself is precious. How do we marry the financial needs and that of family and personal safety? This rests in the hands of the individual. Here is where the focus needs to be : Focus on your personal safety (without being paranoid) Keeping a safe distance, hand-washing and wearing a mask is essential. We have lived through the past five months of following these protocols, yet as we now venture into a busier environment, we need to be reminded of this. When you are out and about, be mindful of the time spent browsing around the store, wearing your mask in the correct way (mouth and nose covered) and carry a small hand sanitizer with you. Family visits We are most relaxed when we are with our loved ones. Hence, it is natural to let down your guard. After many months of no family visits, we are now once again enjoying seeing our loved ones. Although this is a sensitive topic we still need to be conscious of wearing a mask while we are visiting family. This is not only to protect yourself but your loved ones too. It maybe unreasonable and perhaps even seems a tad ‘uncomfortable’ yet when you do it once, it will quickly become a norm. Being kind to yourselfDays are not the same and we are feeling quite anxious, times are still uncertain. Spend time on self-care (whatever you do to take care of yourself). When you are feeling down, take a moment to just catch your breath, be kind to yourself. Right now, a little extra love and care is what is needed. We are certainly not performing as we used to, do not be hard on yourself because of that. Take one day at a time, connect with your feelings and understand that this too shall pass. Keep focus on moving forward and not feeling stuck. After all, we are all in this together, everyday is a new opportunity, seek confidence in faith, prayer and strength in a higher purpose. Focus on what you can control as you take charge of both your physical and emotional health. Together we can come out stronger. About the columnist : Krsangi Radhe is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching. She is an NLP practitioner, mindset coach helping women, children and couples and time-line therapist. She is a teacher and motivational speaker.