Residents of the Chatsworth community will soon be able to enjoy the benefits of superfast fibre internet in the comfort and safety of their own homes, courtesy of South Africa’s leading fibre provider, Vuma.Kharwastan and Woodhurst will be the first areas to be connected, with more areas to be connected soon. Chatsworth residents will be able to sign up for Vuma REACH, a unique prepaid package designed to make fibre more affordable and flexible for everyone. As part of this package, Vuma will provide a FREE fibre installation and Wi-Fi router to each home that places an order for their first month’s internet service.Residents can sign up for an uncapped 20mb per second line for just R399 a month from one of four internet service providers (ISPs) – Web Africa, Supersonic, MWeb, or Afrihost. A 40mb per second option is also expected to be launched soon.“What makes Vuma REACH so attractive for residents is that the installation and router needed to connect to our super-fast fibre is free of charge. All you pay for is the monthly fee for fibre internet, which residents have control over,” says Simon Atlas, at Vuma.Simon adds that the fast, affordable Vuma Reach offering has proven very successful in other parts of the country where it has already been deployed, which include Mitchells Plain in Cape Town and Soweto in Johannesburg. To ensure the community is well-informed, Vuma will be distributing pamphlets to every home. For those who would like more information, the Vuma marketing team will also be out and about in the area over the next few weeks to engage with and inform residents about Vuma’s rollout process and fibre internet offering.How will fibre rollout affect me?Residents can expect to see our friendly construction teams installing fibre lines across various neighbourhoods in Chatsworth. This will involve the digging of trenches past every home in the rollout area.Cables ducts, fibre cables, and fibre boxes will be installed in the trenches before the sidewalks are restored to their former condition. The entire process – from the initial digging to the point that you will be able to sign up and enjoy fibre at home – is expected to take between 5-7 weeks. However, this will not affect your ability to drive along roads or access your driveway.“While the laying of fibre infrastructure can be slightly disruptive, we want to assure the community that we are doing everything we can to make sure the process runs as smoothly as possible,” says Simon.“Once the fibre optic cables are in the ground, the hard part is over and residents will finally be able to have world-class internet infrastructure running throughout their neighbourhood. Not only is this great news for families who want to stream and download their favourite shows, or enjoy crystal-clear video calls with family and friends from around the world, but fibre improves property values too. These are just a few of the reasons to get on board the Vuma fibre train!”To find out more, residents and community members are encouraged to follow the Vuma Fibre Reach Chatsworth page on Facebook for ongoing updates on the project’s progress.Visit www.vumareach.co.za to find out more about the Reach fibre offering.