Education philanthropist and Unity Movement veteran, Joseph Yusuf Jacobs celebrated his 80th birthday on 17 September. His birthday celebration was made complete with the presence of his lovely wife Marleen and two of his two children and two grandchildren. The day was also made extra special for him with a visit from his former students of Bechet College. Jacobs, is a retired African Peoples Democratic Union of Southern Africa (APDUSA) member and a father of two. Born in District Six, Cape Town on 17 September 1940 to his father, Ismail Jacobs and mother Zubeida Carr, Jacobs said that he is a family man and always looks up to his paternal grandfather Manan Jamie, who came to South Africa from Indonesia around the 1870s. “My Grandfather worked in the diamond mines in Kimberley in charge of mining teams. During the war years, we moved to Durban and my family was involved in the tailoring business. My family made history in this country which makes me very proud,” said Jacobs. During his primary years, Jacobs attended Albert Street Primary School and completed his schooling at Bechet High School where he later became the school principal. He had also trained as a teacher at the Bechet College of Education and obtained a Teacher’s Diploma. He became involved in politics and joined the Society for Young Africans (SOYA), an intellectual and political think tank, with leftist, radical leanings and training ground for the Non European Unity Movement (NEUM). He said that while being actively involved in politics, he was served with a five-year banning order, where he was restricted to the Durban area and was not allowed to attend any meetings or enter the premises of any education institution and was left without a job. At a later stage with the help of his friends, he found a job as a clerk and continued doing some political work under trying conditions. After his banning order expired, he managed to secure a teaching post, thereafter, a lecturer post and was rector for the Bechet College in 1986. He has been a member of a number of boards which include his founding position as the chairman of the council of rectors and deans of teacher education of KwaZulu-Natal, the National Education Coordinating Committee(NECC). He was also appointed to the board of trustees of the Pro sank Medical scheme in 1996 and later served on the board of sigma Health Fund Managers. Jacobs sat on the board of several welfare organisations including the Durban Child Welfare, St Philomena’s Home and currently advises the board of Mancosa on strategies on entrepreneurship. He is still actively involved in encouraging teacher education. Comparing education then to now he said: “There has been a deterioration in the quality of teacher education and a lot still needs to be done. Unfortunately, colleges were closed and that is where quality teacher education was found. As a country, we still need to be better equipped,” said Jacobs. He added that SA democracy is lacking the essence of democracy. “Democracy is more than just casting a vote. The public must be more involved in the decision making and more liable,” said Jacobs. He said that his birthday celebration is not just about him adding another year but, being an example to the youth of this country. “My eternal optimism is that we will pull this country right to where it ought to be,” Jacobs said. As a show of gratitude for his long life, Jacobs donated his birthday cake and some treats to Stranrear House in Sydenham, for the elderly to enjoy and celebrate on his behalf. Well wishers shared their birthday wishes on social media for the “birthday boy”.
Andre Young said: “A blessed and happy 80th birthday to you, a journey well travelled, with a tremendous contribution to the development and growth of your people. Thank you for what you have done for all of us over many decades of selfless sacrifice. Thank you also for all you are still doing. A special word of thanks and gratitude for your love and support towards our children at St Thomas Home, your years of contribution in both cash and kind are deeply appreciated and acknowledged. I pray that the Almighty will continue to bless you and your dear family in the years ahead.” Alma Domingo, HOD at Bechet High School said: “A very happy birthday Jakes. The community has always appreciated your involvement in education and community matters in general. A life dedicated to the community and an improved education for all. Stay blessed.” Haj Vahed- Geer said: “Happy 80th birthday Mr Jacobs ‘Jakes, a visionary leader, passionate about excellence in Teacher Education and Social Justice. He does not suffer fools, demands professionalism and competence and respects critical and creative thinkers. Beneath that stern exterior beats a compassionate heart.”