Residents of Sydenham turned up to assist with a community field clean-up in spite of the rainy weather and muddy setting on Barns Road grounds, on Monday. The’clean-up’ organiser, Kern Boucher believes that the muck on the grounds had been getting worse as days progressed. This inspired his decision to call out people in the Sydenham vicinity to assist with cleaning up the grounds.”I walk on Barns Rd grounds on a daily basis. I was brought up playing sport on this field. Over the last few weeks, I have been noticing the dirt on the grounds and the state of it was just getting worse. “There are a lot of broken glass among other things scattered on the field and I knew something had to be done immediately,” Boucher said.”It is good to see people come out and assist with the clean-up. This also gives the wider community a chance to see that there are people willing to step up and do something and not wait for the council or government.” Boucher said that people in the community are used to the grounds being untidy and shift their blame onto the council.  “It is not the council to blame. It is our people, our children and ourselves. We have to take the blame for what is happening on the grounds and we need to be pro-active in solving these matters.” Clinton Isaacs, the Sydenham sport club Jaguars RFC chairman believes that the community needs to take ownership of their surroundings, such as the grounds so that they can understand why it is necessary to keep the place tidy. “I believe that if we can get the understanding of kids and the people who frequently create a mess, then they will understand and take turns in taking pride in this place and clean up,” Isaacs said. A Sydenham resident who assisted in the clean-up, said: “All people complain but they never want to get their hands dirty. The right thing to do is to set an example and to encourage everyone to get involved.” Charmaine Clayton, ward 31 councillor was very happy that the Sydenham community has taken a firm stance and assisted with the clean-up. “I am very pleased with Boucher. He is a ward committee  member and is from the area. He has made a huge impact by talking to the people and saying to the people, ‘together we can make a difference’.” Clayton believes that if everybody can assist in keeping the area clean and be proactive then it should be seen as encouragement to others in the community to also come out and assist in community initiatives such as these. “When the community comes out like this, regardless of the weather, it tells me one thing. It gives me a sense of belonging. This community and the people are pro-active and they want to see change. I am very pleased with them,” Clayton said.