After being spared yesterday, the first day of the nationwide protests, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) shut down the Chatsworth Clicks, today. A group of around seven EFF members sang and danced outside the Chatsworth Centre Clicks, exercising their right to protest against the racist advertisement that appeared on the Clicks website last week. The marketing campaign by Clicks promoted a black model to have ‘damaged hair’ and a white model to have ‘normal and flat hair’ which caused a massive uproar nationwide. The centre’s management and security kept the shoppers calm inside the store while the protest continued outside. Centre management discouraged shoppers from clicking photographs or recording videos saying “it encouraged the protestors” While the protest was kept at bay, it did not sit well with some shoppers and neighbouring shop keepers. One shopper, Shirley Govender said: “It’s all good and well that they are given an opportunity to exercise their right to protest, but what about our right to shop in a safe and undisrupted environment? The store has been closed now so I am unable to buy essentials that I needed.” The shop adjacent to the Clicks store, All Big Brands Factory Shop, had just opened their doors three days ago and said that the protest affected their morning negatively since shoppers are diverting from the floor. Shop manager, Sikander Shahid said: “We have not even been opened for a week and the protest today is causing us to suffer a bit of a loss. Shoppers are avoiding this floor now so we may not have much customers coming through today. The centre’s operations manager, Ricardo Thomas, said that it was a peaceful protest and no customer, Clicks staff member or property was harmed nor damaged. He said: “We identified EFF members entering our premises at our main gates through our control room and called on Metro and SAPS for assistance. Our internal mall security negotiated with EFF leaders to find out what needed to be done for them to leave the mall and then approached Clicks to transfer the demands.” Thomas said that Clicks accepted the demands and all staff including the store management exited the store. “Once the EFF saw this, they left our centre,” said Thomas. Meanwhile, CEO of Clicks, Vikesh Ramsunder, issued a statement on Monday apologising on behalf of the group and expressed his disappointment that insensitive and offensive images were allowed to be published on their website. Ramsunder confirmed that the negligent employees have been suspended and that they have engaged the supplier, who has now also issued an apology. “As a company, we cannot change what happened, but we are learning from this. We are committed to effecting real, systemic change across our business that reflects our pride in being a truly South African company. We have done a lot in terms of transformation. This issue has clearly highlighted that we have a lot more to do,” said Ramsunder. He further said: “We appeal to all stakeholders to engage with us so that we redress actions to demonstrate our commitment to diversity and inclusion. We will take the necessary precautionary steps to ensure the safety and well-being of our customers and our employees. This includes dealing with the threat of the disruption of our business activities and intimidation of our customers and employees.” The apology on the TRESemmé South Africa website read:  ” We are very sorry that images used in a TRESemmé South Africa marketing campaign on the Clicks website promoted racist stereotypes about hair. The campaign set out to celebrate the beauty of all hair types and the range of solutions that TRESemmé offers, but we got it wrong. The images are not in line with the values of our brand, or of Clicks. ” TRESemme also apologised to the Clicks group and said that they are ” looking into how this happened”  and why it was not picked up.