A Westville resident and manager of Rieks Towing, Johan Kriek, 53, was stabbed and killed in a home invasion on Tuesday. Garrith Jamieson, spokesperson for advanced life support paramedic said that Kriek and his son were treated by paramedics at the scene. He said that the incident occurred just after 5.20am on Roger Sishi Road in the Westville North area near the M19. Jamieson said: “On arrival, paramedics found three occupants of the house had sustained various injuries. A male believed to be in his 50s sustained a critical stab wound and was stabilised on scene by advanced life support paramedics before the man went into cardiac arrest. Despite paramedics and doctors attempts at hospital, the patient succumbed to his injuries. The two other residents at the house sustained moderate injuries and were taken to hospital for treatment.” Westville SAPS communication officer, Captain Elizabeth Squires confirmed the incident. “During the armed robbery, a scuffle ensued in which a 53-year-old resident and his 18-year-old son were stabbed while defending the family. The suspects then fled the premises in the direction of the M19. SAPS, and all emergency services were on scene. After the incident, we were very saddened to hear that the victim had succumbed to his injuries,” she said. Fleetwatch, a truck magazine, posted a condolence message on their Facebook page. “Johan was a man who came to the help of so many people out on the roads. He and his team worked closely with emergency services on crash scenes and he was always willing to go the extra mile in helping others during their times of trauma. One of Kriek’s last post on his Facebook page before his brutal murder was: ‘If I see a police officer being injured or attacked, I will defend their life.’ And last night, he was attacked and killed. He did not deserve to die this way and his family does not deserve this heartache. FleetWatch extends sincere condolences to Johan’s family, friends and all his colleagues at Rieks Towing. He will be sorely missed. May he RIP.” Westville SAPS Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Asad Patel said that they noticed that crime was escalating in the neighbourhood, which could be due the decrease in police visibility over the lasy few months. He said that this has embodied criminals. “We as the CPF are devastated by the sad news of the passing of one of our residents. We extend our condolences to the family of the deceased and pray they are granted strength and patience to bear the loss,” he said. Squires added that the suspects were still at large. A case of murder and house robbery is being investigated by Westville police detectives.