The heinous murder of a young father of one in an alleged robbery has left the community of Isipingo reeling and his family shattered by the merciless crime. Shaun Govender, believed to be in his 30s, was viciously stabbed in an alleged robbery on Inwabi Road in Isipingo, on Friday night. He died minutes later after pushing himself to seek help nearby. His friends and family rushed to the scene to find his lifeless body strewn on the ground. Isipingo SAPS communications officer, Captain David Ragavan, said: “It is alleged that on Friday night the victim was walking along Inwabi Road on his way home when he was approached by three unknown men who stabbed him on the left side of his neck and on the right side of his upper back. The suspects then fled on foot. The motive is possibly robbery, although it is unknown what was stolen from the deceased.” “The victim then turned around and tried to make his way to the bar on Bally Road, but when he reached near the bar, he collapsed on the side of the road and died. The body was certified deceased by PT Ambulance Service.” Ragavan said: “A case of murder is under investigation at Isipingo SAPS and anyone who has information that can assist police in solving this case can contact Isipingo SAPS on 031-9133412.” Spokesperson for PT Alarms, Dhevan Govindasamy said: “PT Ambulance Service responded to the stabbing on Inwabi Road where the male victim was found to be deceased. PT Ambulance Service paramedics declared the victim deceased on scene. The victim was found with severe stab wounds to the neck and upper back. Paramedics reported that there was a blood trail that indicated the stabbed victim dragged himself in his critical state to get help. He succumbed to his injuries on scene. It is alleged the victim was robbed of his belongings as he was returning home from work and the suspects fled. According to information reported on scene, the victim cried out to a friend nearby but died before anyone could reach him.” Community and family members were devastated to hear of the young father’s murder and took to social media to express their grief. “The death of Shaun Govender, son of my cousin Marie has come as a shock. He was a victim of robbers last night after he was brutally stabbed. So young with so much still to do. A very religious person who belonged to a Raam Bhajan group providing spiritual inspiration for many prayer events. His sacrifice will be forever remembered and I hope that the outpouring of love to his family and many friends will help in some small way during this extremely difficult time. May his soul rest in peace,” a family member shared. (sic) “Who would have thought today would be your last? RIP my Brother. You will be dearly missed….it was too soon to say Goodybye. Till We Meet Again,” another close friend posted. (sic) The Shree Hanuman Bhajan group shared: “Shaun was a loving and caring soul who brought joy to all around him. Being around him never allowed you to experience a dull moment. Life had many ups and downs in his path but him having the Love and Devotion for our Gods and Prayers has always made him push through. The Shree Hanuman Bhajan group kindly appeals to everyone to pray for him and his family, to guide our brother to his most deserving place in heaven and to give his family and friends the strength to overcome this trying time.” (sic) Shaun is mourned by his mother, brother, baby daughter, wife and a host of family and friends.