A Wheatbrook Avenue mother was unpleasantly surprised when she was approached by armed masked robbers while sweeping her yard in Brookdale, on Friday morning. It is alleged that the complainant’s son-in-law left the driveway gate open and went up the road to fetch his vehicle. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain L Naidoo said that a grey VW Jetta reversed
into the yard with five men. “Three of them jumped out armed with firearms and were wearing masks. The suspects pointed the firearms at the woman and pushed her into the house. They demanded money and jewellery and took her into her room.” Naidoo said that they also went into her daughter’s room and demanded the same from her. “She gave them whatever she had and they left. The victim’s son-in-law Jerome was entering the yard at that time and they pointed the firearm at him and he drove off,” added Naidoo. Gold jewellery, cash, four cellphones, four laptops and two televisions were taken all valued at R150 000. A house robbery is being investigated by Phoenix SAPS. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) responded to the robbery in progress. Rusa head, Prem Balram said that three robbers threatened to harm two children aged two and six during the house robbery. “On arrival, reaction officers were informed that the suspects had fled in a silver VW Jetta prior to their arrival. Details of the vehicle were circulated to all Rusa officers who conducted an extensive search however the suspects still remain at large. According to one of the victims, three armed men entered their residents and held up an elderly woman. The robbers demanded valuables and threatened to harm two sleeping children had they not received what they had asked for. Balram said that as the suspects were loading the stolen goods into their getaway vehicle, a male resident drove onto the property. The suspects instructed him to drive off. They then got into their vehicle and fled,” Balram added. Phoenix Community Police Forum chairperson Umesh Singh said: “It is sad that residents are not safe in their own yards. Criminals can strike at any time. Be on guard. Keep gates and doors locked. Invest in a security system that can be a deterrent or an early warning alert for criminals.”