The chilling discovery of charred human remains found wrapped in a blanket near the sugarcane fields of uMthwalume, KwaZulu-Natal South Coast, has renewed fears that the late murder accused Mafutha Khomo was not acting alone. The charred remains, yet to be identified, were discovered by the community on 29 August. Police said the victim may have been killed elsewhere and dumped near the sugarcane field where the bodies of five women were found, in the last five months. Cousins Nosipho and Akhona Gumede, Nelisiwe Dube, Zama Chiliza and a two other women are believed to have been murdered by the serial killer, Khomo, who killed himself in the police cells within hours of being due to go point out where he had buried his other victims. Khomo had allegedly confessed to the police that there were more bodies to be found, but could not remember the number of women he had killed. “There really is a dark cloud hanging over Mthwalume, what have we done to deserve this?” a resident asked. She said that they now are scared to even move around the rural area by themselves. According to police reports, 14 women from uMthwalume have been reported missing since April.“We were already scared of being hunted down by a serial killer, and breathed a sigh of relief when we were told he was arrested and now this is happening. When are we going to get peace in Mthwalume, we have now become the dumping ground for murders in the South Coast,” she said. Following the recent gruesome discovery and the murder of the at least six women in the area, KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala, accompanied by Social Development MEC, Nohlanhla Khoza, Transport Community Safety and Liaison MEC, Bheki Ntuli, Provincial Police Commissioner Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula and mayors under Ugu District Municipality visited the area and the bereaved families on Tuesday. During the 1 September visit, the leadership also laid a wreath and held a short sermon at the scene where bodies of young women were found in uMthwalume. They also paid homage to families of victims who were killed and dumped in the dense bush next to the sugarcane field. Government also held a community dialogue as part of the campaign to end the scourge of gender-based violence (GBV). Zikalala urged for community in ridding the area of this scourge and promised residents and the families of the victims that the investigation will not end with Khomo’s death. He said: “We have lost more than five young women in this area and the indication is that they were raped before they were killed. This case has been to court and the serial killer is said to have committed suicide but this matter does not end there. The police will continue to investigate while we look at societal factors that led to this situation. We need to work together with communities to eliminate drugs and criminal activities that are prevalent in the area.” Zikalala said that there will be an ongoing engagement with stakeholders to bring stability in Mthwalume. To kick-off the engagements, the Premier met with all stakeholders in the area, including the Community Policing Forum (CPF), community members, religious and traditional leaders, to come up with a comprehensive plan to deal with the scourge of gender-based violence. This after Zikalala also received a comprehensive report from police authorities on the ongoing investigation into the murder of women in the area.