Durban funeral parlours were forced to down their tools on Monday following an instruction for a national shutdown of all funeral parlours and mortuaries by the Unification Task Team (UTT) of the Funeral Industry. Durban directors chose not to comment on how they felt about the shutdown as many felt threatened for their lives. When contacted for comment, Doves Durban Branch said that their managers were in a crisis and the company was not taking any calls. A religious burial council was also contacted for comment, however, the spokesperson said that he could not comment as the matter is risky and could impose danger on people’s lives. He did not deny the fact that in some religions, burials could not be halted and what needs to be done will be done, as a sign of respect to culture, the deceased and the bereaved families. A Durban private funeral parlour director, Neeshal Jagarnath said that he was not in support of the shutdown. Jagarnath said that the call for a shutdown is against his constitutional right and is undignified as it will disallow bereaved families the rights to bury or cremate their loved ones according to their cultural belief. He said he was however in support of the call to have tender processes abolished as many undertakers do not qualify or meet the criteria and he believed that the system is riddled by corruption. Some directors felt that the shutdown was not necessary, however, they were left without a choice and had to stop operations. It is alleged that one black owned undertaker who was open for business on Monday was attacked by a group who demanded that he close business with immediate effect. UTT demanded that operations are halted until government gives them a written agreement to the demands raised by the funeral practitioners. “No bodies were to be removed from hospitals and homes and no burials are to take place until this happens,” said UTT KZN convener, Muzi Hlengwa. This may result in serious repercussions for the public health sector. UTT’s demands are that government recognises and allows the outsourcing of mortuary facilities; the Department of Home Affairs allows them to appoint a third party to conduct some duties on their behalf, which is currently prohibited by law.  UTT also claims that the requirement for all undertakers to have a Certification of Competence (COC) does not work in the favour of small funeral parlours, but only for the giants of the industry. Hlengwa said that they are not fighting the community or their clients but are fighting government, and have given hospitals an option to call the SAPS if there are bodies which need to be moved from the hospitals or from a crime scene to a mortuary. In the late hours of Monday, Hlengwa confirmed that they had reached an agreement with government, however, they were still awaiting a written agreement. “We are waiting for government to give us the outcomes of the meeting held with our leaders, however in return we were informed that they circulated a different instruction. We will continue with the strike and each day will be more intense,” said Hlengwa. Last week Ethekwini Municipality issued a statement requesting that undertakers operating within the city, legally or illegally come forward so that they are added to the municipal data base. The municipality said that having the undertakers on a database would ensure that the industry is well regulated. Head of Ethekwini Parks, Recreation and Culture Unit, Thembinkosi Ngcobo said: “Having registered, the undertakers would be given a chance to be part of municipal empowerment programs that will assist them to do business legally.” He said that undertakers had from 1 to 30 September to register. Jagarnath said that regulating the industry must happen. “It is a must, especially after having the Covid-19 pandemic teach us and the industry the values of all regulations and requirements for competence. As a business and as an industry they have to apply to all proper health and safety measures to satisfy our client’s needs,” said Jagarnath. He said that if the shutdown continues, undertakers will have one big challenge of having to explain to the bereaved why they cannot let their loved ones rest in peace due to the ruthless behavior of certain industry players. He said that initially when he opened the business he had a clear plan of generating clients and a business plan, however, he is currently generating clients through an insurance cover. UTT said this shutdown is long overdue and the challenges needing to be addressed are those affecting the black owners in the business. “Black funeral undertakers live in absolute mass poverty. Undertakers in the black community are landless and their children have no productive future. We are calling upon the entire funeral industry, funeral undertakers in particular to heed the call that seeks to change the landscape of the funeral industry and save their businesses from the unscrupulous chain of politicians, government officials, private sector and corporations that portray themselves as legitimate funeral federations,” said Thokozani Dlala, UTT national convener.