Challenging the decision to put an end to the Islamic call to prayer has gathered international attention after a protest was carried out by the Tactical Shooting Team (TST) on Sunday. This comes after unashamed and unapologetic Isipingo resident, Chandra Ellaurie won a court case to have the Islamic call to prayer near his home silenced. The demonstration against the court judgment included residents of all faiths who braved the overcast weather to join a convoy that played the azaan (Islamic call to prayer) on loudspeakers in Isipingo Beach and surrounding areas. Among them were TST members, out in their numbers, to demonstrate their dissatisfaction with the recent ruling of the Durban High Court. TST member Rivaaj Ramdas said that he and the members of his group have a love for the community irrespective of race, creed or religion. “An attack on one is an attack on all. We are sick of Islamophobia,” he said. “We believe in God in all forms. How can we ban what brings peace? This man’s evil attempts to stop religion has actually brought us together. If one of us is attacked we know they will fight for us,” said Ramdas. The matter has since been taken on appeal by the Madrasah’s attorney, Aslam Mayat who said: “It is a gross violation of one’s constitutional right to practice their religion. It also violates the rights of every other religious person or institution that uses a bell, chanting or any sound and on the rights of every citizen to exercise their right to live in a society where some sound is inevitable like the sound of a car passing a home. This decision appears to bar any sound that could be heard in ones home, regardless of whether or not such sound causes any noise nuisance as governed by municipal laws.” Hoosen Moolla from the Isipingo Beach Muslim Association said that for close to 50 years, the azaan has been heard in the community and during that time there has been no issues with anyone. “The community comprises of various religious groups. We’ve lived harmoniously and have always supported each other. However he (Ellaurie) had been objecting to the azaan for a long time and used various avenues to get us to stop the call to prayer. He had even taken it to the South African Human Right Commission but nothing had worked in his favour. The muslim community has a long-standing harmonious relationship with all sectors of the community. I am hoping that common sense and good judgement will prevail.” Dr Faisal Suliman, Chairperson of the South African Muslim Network (Samnet) said he hopes the appeal against the ruling of ”a very poor judgement” will be overturned. “If not, the implications are that church bells will be stopped, temple mantras need to ensure that their neighbours cannot hear them and a child practicing a religious musical instrument could be deemed as a nuisance. This judgment legitimizes religious bigotry and gives in to intolerance in a country where we should be promoting ubuntu.” Human rights law expert and legal analyst Saber Jazbhay said: ” We respect the law but the judgment was fatally flawed. He (Mngadi) did not apply his mind to the judgment and has misdirected himself in the understanding of the term ‘nuisance’.” Jazbhay said that people living in these sort of communities need to accept some degree of noise.