A private company known as Vumatel is currently busy with the roll out of fibre optic cables in Ward 50. Councillor Lyndal Singh said that the project should be completed to go live in the Woodview area, by 15 October. Singh said that she was contacted by the company informing her of the project that will be rolled out in the whole of Phoenix, starting in Ward 50. “In July, the company had an online meeting with the Phoenix councillors, where it was indicated that the project would start in late August, which they have done. I did request in the meeting that they inform the Phoenix residents about the project. The youth, employed by the company have since been going door-to-door with pamphlets, informing residents and an advert was also placed in the Phoenix Tabloid about the project two weeks ago.” A meeting was further held with all the relevant parties in Woodview on Tuesday, 8 September where all concerns were raised. “The company sourced their own local labourers within the community. I did not have a problem with this as there are many unemployed youth in our community. “If anything, this has benefitted the youth. The residents wanted assurances that the area would not be left unsightly, especially where residents drive ways have been cut. The water and electricity cuts after the project began has led to high levels of frustration of residents due to the interruptions,” said Singh. She said that many concerns were raised including the turnaround time for water, electricity and fibre, workers urinating on residents properties causing a health issue. “Residents wanted assurances that the area would not be left unsightly especially where driveways have been cut, no proper identification of workers and no contact details for the relevant officials. Residents further questioned if there was a proper tender process in place, if the company is the main body and if they have proper PPE files. They also suggested that the company should put up an information centre or create their own WhatsApp group.” “The sub-contractor said he was willing to employ more youth for labour. He confirmed that the only thing that will be visible from the project will be the trench line and will ensure that water and electricity cuts turnaround is much quicker. He stated that the municipal cables and pipes do not seem to be at the depth they are meant to have been installed – incurring issues with electricity cables and water pipes when digging into the ground. Reinstatements will be complete and restored to original state. He also indicated that the project in Woodview should reach completion to go live by 15 October. The project will begin in Foresthaven thereafter,” said Singh. She added: “This project did not come through to any councillors for signing off. Proper processes were followed and the project was approved by the municipality. The company has way-leave permits with them, available for public viewing. Each issue will be dealt with or addressed,” Singh added. For questions or queries contact Bilal Patel on 082 632 6211, email: bilal@u2tel.com, Jules Augustine (site manager) on 060 582 9007, David Jonathan Padayachee on 062 107 5270, email: david@ihappify.co.za or Alec Nyatanga on 076 471 7337, email: alec@u2tel.com.”