Due to a gradual, but steady decline in new coronavirus infections, the government has decided that the country will move to alert level 1 from midnight, Sunday, 20 September. President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement to the nation on Wednesday, 16 September. Ramaphosa said: “We are still in the midst of a deadly epidemic. Our greatest challenge now is to ensure that we do not experience a new surge in infections.” He explained that countries around the world have been hit by a ‘second wave’ or a resurgence of infections.
The president announced the increase in coronavirus testing and a nationwide survey to assess the actual levels of infection. Contact tracing will occur through the deployment of the Covid Alert South Africa mobile phone app and the Covid Connect WhatsApp platform. South Africans with Smartphones are urged to download the zero-rated Covid Alert mobile app from the Apple App Store or Google Play Store. Using Bluetooth technology, the app will alert any user if they have been in close contact with any other user who has tested positive for coronavirus in the past 14 days.
New normal
Ramaphosa said: “It is time to move to what will become our new normal for as long as the coronavirus is with us.”
Alert level 1 commences from midnight on Sunday, 20 September and will bring the easing of restrictions. New changes are:
Gatherings: International travel ban is lifted from 1 October International traveller’s requirements: Return to regular economic and social activity: Adjustments have been made to the Loan Guarantee Scheme to make it easier for companies of any size to access credit at low interest rates, with delayed repayments. Gender-based violence (GBV) Covid-related Corruption Avoid infecting others
Wear a mask, in public, covering both nose and mouth. Maintain a distance of one-and-a-half metres, Wash our hands or use hand sanitiser regularly. Download the Covid Alert South Africa app. Heritage Day
Ramaphosa urged everyone to use this public holiday as family time, to reflect on “the difficult journey” we have all travelled, to remember those who have lost their lives, and to rejoice in the remarkable and diverse heritage of our nation. He urged everyone to celebrate “our South African-ness” by joining the global phenomenon and taking up the Jerusalema dance challenge on Heritage Day.