Over 30 people have been arrested and six vehicles impounded including two trucks following a protest by artists on the N3 Highway today (Wednesday, 2 September). The artists are protesting against the lockdown level 2 regulations which only permits a maximum of 50 people at events, concerts and live performances impacting their income and their ability to earn a living. Demonstrating their dissatisfaction, the artists erected a stage in the middle of the N3 Highway, west of Durban, where they hosted a mini concert. The protestors held up boards that demanded 70 percent capacity in event venues. The artists made a Twitter thread #VulaPresident and demanded to be taken seriously. A Twitter user @JackiePhamotse wrote: “Dear Mr @CyrilRamaphosa you seem not to care about the arts industry! We have not been catered for during this lockdown! If guns and teargas is the only way you handle our hunger then so be it. We are tired of being ostracised. Please open up the country.” (sic). Durban Metro Police spokesperson, Parboo Sewpersad said: “35 people have been arrested and six vehicles, including two trucks have been impounded.” The protest caused traffic to come to a standstill on the N3, eastbound , westbound and the EB Cloete Interchange. Police used teargas to disperse the crowd. EThekwini Municipality Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda condemned the “unruly behaviour” by artists, for blocking the N3 freeway causing disturbance to the traffic flow and inconvenience to road users for more than three hours. In a statement Kaunda said: ” I wish to denounce the unlawful conduct of blockading of roads to resolve matters. We understand that various sectors and industries have been hard hit economically by the Covid-19 global pandemic but the unruly actions and acts of economic sabotage will not be tolerated and those who go against the law will be brought to book. The mayor implored artists to exercise patience during this “difficult time” as the city works towards recovering the economy ” for the benefit of all. “ ” As a democratic government, our doors remain open to discuss issues affecting our residents. We respect the right of people to embark on peaceful protests. What we will not tolerate is anarchy and blockading of roads which puts a further strain in our ailing economy,” said Kaunda.