Tongaat ratepayers are threatening to embark on a massive protest against the ongoing water cuts in the area. Residents in Belgate, Belvedere, Sastri Circle and the Pringle Dam, said that they are tired of having constant water shutdowns by the eThekwini Municipality. Rageene Pillay, a resident, said that they were furious at the way the municipality is treating them. “The municipality is failing to provide us with water without interruptions. We always have water cuts, which can last up to a month sometimes,” she said. Pillay said that the most recent cut-offs were last week and that water-shedding period lasted for about a week. “Enough is enough. We cannot continue like this. We have decided to close the local roads for the municipality to pay attention to our plight,” she said. Another resident Nokulunga Khoza, said that their grievance and complaints continue to fall on deaf ears. “We have suffered enough from the incompetence of the municipal leadership for years. At the recent meeting, between the residents and municipal officials, we suggested that they supply us with mini tanks, for each household, charged to the ratepayer’s municipal account. But no action has been taken till today,” she said. Ward 58 councillor Geoff Pullan, said that he was aware that residents are angry and have threatened to copy others who demonstrate destructively. He said: “I recently sent an email to the municipality and copied in our president Cyril Ramaphosa telling them about the issue of water cuts in Tongaat because water is essential. No response from the municipality has been received so far. There appears to be no forward planning about water issues in our city.” In the email sent, Pullan advised the water department to keep councillors in the affected wards informed so that they can assist in informing residents about the water cuts. “I also advised that the department urgently looks at ways to guarantee water to the residents such as: Plans of all the Tongaat water infrastructure be stuck on the walls of the northern team’s offices, so they know where everything is and when new officials take over from each other, the list of valves closed be given to the current officials otherwise they do not know which valves to open when they have finished working,” he said. Pullan suggested that generators be installed for pumping water to the reservoirs when load-shedding kicks, in for the foreseeable future. “Standby officials should be available to answer queries from the public. Councillors are in the invidious position of trying to defend the municipality,” he added. At a recent eThekwini executive committee (exco) meeting, municipal mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said that there was a medium-term and long-term plan being actioned to mitigate the impact of water interruptions. He said that water projects were being monitored daily through a war room that is being led by the city manager. Kaunda said that he was aware of the water shortages in a number of areas which has resulted in violent public protests. “We have asked officials to work around the clock to ensure that this challenge is addressed. A medium to long-term plan has been developed which includes procurement of standby generators and the upgrading of infrastructure. Working with Umgeni Water, we are currently installing standby generators, particularly in pump stations,” Kaunda said. He attributed the water shortage to ailing infrastructure and the increase in population size which has compounded the situation, worsened by load-shedding and cable theft.