Residents of KwaMathambo informal settlement in Redhill blame overcrowding as a reason for building extra shacks. They claim as their families expand, they need more shacks to accommodate them. On Friday, eThekwini Municipality’s Land Invasion Unit together with Calvin Family Group demolished two unoccupied structures in the settlement. Owners of the demolished shacks travelled to the Eastern Cape when lockdown started and theu have not returned since. One of the owners Zandile Majola, 28, told the Durban North News that the demolished shack belonged to her and since she is unemployed she is unable to afford to pay rent. Majola said that the shack has been demolished close to five times after the 2013 fire. “When the fire broke out in 2013, I was forced to move out of my sister’s shack because the spacing was limited. My sister stays with her boyfriend which made it difficult for us to live in one room,” said Majola. She said that even though the municipality has warned them about building extra shacks, it is impossible for a big family to live in these tiny shacks. “In the beginning of the lockdown when the municipality Land Invasion Unit came and demolished our shacks, I was forced to go back home to the Eastern Cape because I had nowhere else to stay. I have not come back ever since,” she added. Area committee member Ndodeni Dengo confirmed that the demolished shacks were unoccupied. Dengo said the city’s Land Invasion unit came to the settlement on Thursday and told residents that seven shacks including the unoccupied structures would be demolished on Friday. “We were worried because most of the structures at this settlement have been here for years. We do not have any new structures except for the two that were demolished but residents are not new here it is only the structures that were built recently. I do not know what would happen to the owners when they come back as they told us that they should not rebuild,” Dengo said. In 2013, the city built shacks for residents after a fire ripped through the settlement destroying 257 shacks. “We had 293 shacks then but that number has grown. The city has warned us that the next time they returned, they would demolish all shacks that were not built by the city,” said Dengo. According to Dengo, they have tried over the years to stop people from building. “We are overcrowded as it is but as children grow, they want their own space and that is creating a problem as it also increases a number of shacks,” Dengo said. There were no incidents of violence during the demolitions on Friday.  City spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela has on several occasions said that the city does not demolish occupied shacks, only unoccupied ones to prevent “land invasions”. Mayisela said on Friday: “Land invasion in the city continues to be an albatross around our necks. It should be noted that the city will not win the war against land invasion alone. Bearing testimony to the fact that we are taking land invasion seriously, is that the city has a fully-fledged unit whose sole responsibility is to deal with land invasion. The municipality is guided by council policies and the court of law.” He urged members of the public to report to authorities when they see people invading land or municipal property. “Regarding overcrowding at informal settlements, we encourage residents to report this to the local councillor who will then invite the necessary stakeholders to address this,” Mayisela said. Members of the public are urged to contact the eThekwini Municipality’s Security Management Unit on 031 311 4699 or 079 821 8879 to report land invasion.