Minister of Police, Bheki Cele, on Wednesday, visited the Rafferty family farm in Normandien, Newcastle to offer condolences and meet with organised community policing and farming structures. The prominent couple Glen, 63 and Vida Rafferty, 60, were murdered on their farm on Saturday evening. It is alleged that the couple were returning home from an outing when they were overpowered and shot dead. Their dog was also shot and was found lying beside them. Glen is the brother of well-known vet Dr Barry Rafferty. KZN police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala said: “Three suspects ransacked the house. Cameras were destroyed and a camera control was taken.” The suspects made a get away with the couple’s vehicle which was later found. Speaking to the Newcastle Express, Cele said that separation had to be stopped regarding farm workers and farm owners. “We need to strengthen the relationship between the police and the farming community. We need to work on preventative measures. We are there when there is a death, we are reactive, and we arrest the perpetrators but by that time the murder has already taken place. So we hope that within our strategy, we will be rolling out resources within the community in order to become combative in stopping these murders from taking place.” Cele said that he would again visit the community in about two to three weeks’ time “to get the ball rolling.” At the community hall, the minister said that he hoped police will complete investigations into the murder of the Rafferty’s soon. “We have had about seven farmers since last year that have been killed. It looks like we have made great progress in arresting those involved. The only case where no arrests have been made is in this new case, but it looks like we are following the right direction,” he said. Tamsyn Rafferty, the couple’s daughter said that her dad was always part of the community. “He was Zulu. He grew up Zulu. It did not matter to him if you were black or white. We understand that this is not a political or race thing. It is a criminal thing,” said Tamsyn. The family thanked Cele for his visit.