Two suspects were arrested and a gas gun and knife together with cash were seized after two suspects, one a former employee, held up the supervisor at the butchery in Phoenix, on Saturday. One suspect was arrested by police following a chase while the second suspect was nabbed by KZN VIP officers. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said that the complainant was at work in the cash office taking coins to hand over to the cashiers when she felt someone pushing the door trying to enter the room. “She noticed that it was a former employee. The suspect allegedly pushed her inside the cash room and hit her with a firearm on the face. He allegedly demanded her cellphone but she replied that the cellphone was by the till. “The suspect instructed the complainant to open the safe and took money from the safe which he loaded into a black bag. He (suspect) instructed the complainant to sit down and not scream and he left the cash office. When complainant was opening the door, she noticed a second unknown man pretending to be a customer. The complainant screamed and both suspects ran off on foot where a chase ensued,” Naidoo said. KZN VIP spokesperson, Gareth Naidoo, said that KZN VIP response officers received a
call for assistance in a police chase involving armed robbery suspects. “One suspect was apprehended by police with a knife in his possession. The other suspect fled the scene. While searching for the second suspect, KZN VIP Officers spotted a suspicious individual on Chellan Avenue. When the suspect saw the KZN VIP vehicle, he began to run. Officers pursued him and apprehended the suspect. The suspect was searched and a gas gun as well as a large amount of coins and notes, and two cellphones were found in his possession. The suspect was handed over to police,” Gareth said Captain Naidoo said: “Metro Police and KZN VIP arrested the suspects and recovered the stolen items including R6 056 in cash. Police are investigating a business robbery case.” Phoenix Community Police Forum (CPF) chairman, Umesh Singh said: “The criminals are ruthless and will use force to get what they want. It is upsetting that the employee was attacked so callously by the armed suspect. Swift response from the community, Metro police and KZN VIP led to the two arrests and recovery of the stolen items. We welcome the arrests and urge for police, community members and the security companies to work together to yield excellent results in the community.”