Charismatic, hard-working and ambitious are just a few words that best describe KZN attorney and Mr Supranational SA 2020 Akshar Birbal. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the crowning of the Mr Supanational SA 2020 did not take place, but Birbal was announced as the winner. He will represent South Africa at an event in Poland next year. “Having being chosen as the Mr Supranational South Africa 2020 is certainly a dream come true for me as I will now be able to represent my country on an international platform. This is certainly a stepping stone to success and I shall use this life changing platform to both enhance myself and to give back to those less fortunate than myself in South Africa. I shall take this title with open arms and I have no doubt that I will make South Africa proud at the Mr Supranational finals to be held in Poland next year,” said Birbal. Mr Supranational is organised by the World Beauty Association. The event aims to revolutionise the industry, being the first competition of its nature to have super modern and high fashion television production. The very first Mr Supranational was held in 2016, with Mexico taking the coveted title. The reigning Mr Supranational title is held by Nate Crnkovich from the US. South Africa was represented for the first time last year, by Johannesburg student and model Rushil Jina. He was placed in the top ten, out of 49 countries, and represented South Africa with true poise and charisma on this international platform. 50 countries competed in the first edition. According to organisers, the idea is to discover new talent for the modelling and television industries and to create a platform for these talented men to succeed. Handing over the baton to Birbal, Rushil Jina said: “I wish Akshar everything of the best. I have no doubt that he will exceed our expectations and place well in this international event. The experience was one I will always be thankful for, it has certainly developed me as an individual, I am most grateful to have represented my country.”