Two weeks after The Phoenix Tabloid reported on an incident at the Phoenix Community Health Centre (Unit 10 clinic) where nurses allegedly refused to treat a 34 weeks pregnant mother who later lost her baby, yet another Phoenix mother has claimed incompetence and negligence on the part of doctors and nurses at the same clinic, following the death of her five-week-old baby girl. Lisa Juthan, 29, told The Phoenix Tabloid that she and her husband needed counselling as they were having sleepless nights and difficulties coming to terms with the loss of their baby. She claimed that her baby could have been saved if the doctors on duty had seen to her on Tuesday, 18 August. Juthan said that she had taken her baby to the doctor after she fell ill with diarrhoea the previous evening. “Doctor DG Bobat attended to the baby and wrote a referral letter to quickly take the baby to the clinic and advised that when I get to the clinic, the doctor there should immediately put a drip on the baby. Upon arrival at the clinic with my critically ill baby, a male doctor on duty asked what was wrong with the baby. I explained to him that she was dehydrated and had a continuous runny tummy. The doctor then asked me to pick the baby’s clothes up and he pulled her skin around her tummy and said to me, this baby is very dehydrated and in a bad condition. I was very worried as my baby was only five-weeks-old,” said Juthan. Juthan claimed that this was the only time a doctor at the clinic enquired about her baby, from the time they arrived until the baby passed away later that day. “I pleaded and begged with the doctors and nurses to put a drip on her as her condition worsened but no one could assist us with putting a drip. I was just advised to feed her milk and a clear liquid that a nurse gave. I explained to them that I had been continuously feeding baby milk since the morning and it didn’t help keep her hydrated, so I was put in the rehydration room and sat there for over two hours without any doctor or nurse examining baby’s condition,” said Juthan.“The doctor who had seen to the baby on our arrival never came back to check on us even after telling the nurse numerous times about the baby’s condition getting worse. At this time, the baby’s condition was getting worse, her eyes were starting to pop out and her bones were almost visible while her face sunk in. I spoke to one of the nurses about the clear liquid not helping and she abruptly responded I must not teach her about her job,so I continued to sit in the rehydration room, crying with no one to assist me. Not a single healthcare worker was in the room as I sat there feeling helpless as my baby’s condition deteriorated,” said Juthan. Juthan said: “Another male doctor came in the rehydration room, my husband pleaded with him to check on the baby but he never took a second of his time to examine her- instead he told us to keep feeding her milk and the clear liquid and he will be back in a few minutes. Ten minutes later, as my husband went outside, he saw the same doctor driving out the clinic gates. No doctors on duty spared anytime for my little baby who needed immediate attention. She was continuously crying in pain, I called out for help but didn’t get any help from the nurses and doctors,” said Juthan. She claimed it was now after 4pm without the baby being seen to. “Eventually, a female doctor came in and filled out a chart for the baby. She asked to see the baby’s face, and at that very moment her eyes started to roll upwards and her mouth closed, with the lips moving very slowly up and down. The doctor saw this but brushed it off and began talking to the nurse about nail polish remover. They asked me to step outside and I could see from outside the room, the doctor pressing on the baby’s chest – I was happy that finally, my baby is being checked up and she will be okay. Little did I know that my baby’s life was already going and they were trying to save her when it was too late. When I cried out for help from the doctors and nurses throughout the day, they turned me down,” added Juthan. “When they told me that the baby had passed, I went into the room and her body was already cold with her eyes and mouth wide open. The milk had come up through her mouth and nose. After the way they treated me, they didn’t even have the guts to tell me my baby was no more – it took them a while before they did. They killed my baby. All the doctors on duty who knew of my baby’s condition but never did anything to save her, must never touch or treat another patient again. How can doctors be so heartless. These people don’t deserve to be doctors – doctors don’t kill people, they save them,” cried Juthan. In response to queries by The Phoenix Tabloid, spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health, Ntokozo Maphisa said: “The passing away of any individual is always a sad occasion. Without prejudice, the department sends its condolences to the affected family. The department has had an engagement with management of the concerned facility. A preliminary report has been produced, which indicates facts that are contrary to what is being alleged. It details numerous clinical interventions that were made to assist the patient – including attempts at resuscitation. We have scheduled a meeting with the next of kin, whereall concerns will be addressed.”