Cash-trapped Verulam Regional Hospice has suffered yet another blow following the recent break-in that resulted in the loss of property worth an estimated R20 000. It is alleged that the thieves entered the hospice premises in Riyadh Township, Verulam, on 6 September and stole the copper pipes and aluminum balustrades from the newly built education and training centre. Captain Henry Kisten, Verulam police communications officer, confirmed the incident. He said: “A theft case was opened and no suspects have been arrested as yet.” The hospice, in its 23-years of existence, provides home-based care to cancer patients, mainly unemployed women from vulnerable backgrounds. They recently approached Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid to assist with their appeal for donations and much needed sponsors to keep the institution operational. Professor Chandru Kistan, chairperson of the hospice’s board of management, said that all the copper pipes were stolen from the air conditioners. He said: “I received a phone call from the security company about the break-in at the hospice. Police were called in and we reported the stolen items. Sadly, the thieves came back the next day and stole the rest of the balustrades.” Kistan said that the large air conditioning unit is damaged and no longer operational as all the copper pipes and fittings were stolen. Dr Danny Chetty, a founding member of the hospice, expressed his shock over the incident. He said: “I recommended that we do not replace these expensive stolen goods as the hospice cannot afford such expenditure during our financial crisis. Nova Chetty, a board member, was worried that the thieves will continue to steal items from the institution, but I indicated that we cannot afford to hire security guards over the weekends,” he said. Chetty said that the hospice has an alarm system with a local security company. However, Kistan revealed that the hospice has retrenched six staff members during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, sold one of its vehicles and returned one car to the local car hire agent due to financial crisis. “Our invaluable health care services have been cut down, only operating with four part-time staff. We had to keep the institution opened as the most affected terminally ill patients rely totally on our free services,” he said. Kistan said that since the lockdown was introduced, the hospice had faced many challenges which affected the free palliative health services afforded to their patients. “Several appeals were made to the community for financial assistance to continue providing palliative care to our cancer patients who hail from vulnerable families. Our patients are mainly unemployed women with no medical aids,” he added. For more information or to assist the hospice, contact 032 533 2764.