Six KwaZulu-Natal policemen who died in the line of duty were honoured at the SAPS National Commemoration Day, at the Training College in Chatsworth on Sunday. The South African Police Service remembered all men and women in blue who paid the ultimate price in serving their country between the 1 April 2019 and 31 March 2020. The MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli and Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula were in attendance to host the families of their departed colleagues.Ntuli said: “We salute our dearly departed officers for their bravery and may their souls rest in peace. Although they are no longer with us, their spirit lives on. The names of these fallen heroes and heroines will be engraved on the National Memorial Wall at the Union Buildings to signify the gratitude of the nation for their bravery, loyalty and sacrifices made to serve and protect the people of South Africa.” The fallen heroes, Constable NN Biyela who was stationed at Sydenham SAPS, Sergeant MT Sibisi at Ekombe SAPS, Reserve Constable M Mahlangu at Mariannhill SAPS, Sergeant SW Nsibande at KwaMbonambi, Warrant Officer T Pillay at Phoenix SAPS and Warrant Officer RM Makhathini from Crime Intelligence were honoured. Their family members received frames with a picture of the policemen who lost their lives as well as gifts. The Presidency, Police Ministry and SAPS family paid homage in the form of a final salute for the oath that the members took as well as their commitment and bravery in a bid to ensure that all in South Africa are and feel safe. Ntuli saluted the departed officers for their bravery. “Although they are no longer with us, their spirit lives on. We must continue to honour our fallen heroes, because these brave men and women in blue died in the line of duty while protecting others. We appeal to the police to fight until the last bullet when facing dangerous and merciless criminals. No police officer must die in the hands of criminals,” he said. Ntuli has asked police management to ensure the safety of police and support them with all necessary resources to prevent any further loss of life in the hands of hardened criminals. The violence against the police must be a concern for everyone and people must unite in defending our police. He further added: “Equally, police need to win the trust of members of the community and lead by example. Corruption is a cancer in our society that needs to be confronted by all of us and could ravage our institutions if not dealt with as immediately as possible. I wish to issue a clarion call to police officers that when criminals offer you bribes, refuse to accept those bribes because by doing so you are demonstrating that you have a high level of integrity and professionalism. “Say no when you are asked to make dockets disappear, and by doing so you are ensuring that justice is served. Combating fraud and corruption within the ranks; and rooting out criminal and corrupt elements from within the service will assist in regaining public trust.” The Department of Community Safety and Liaison in the province will activate all community structures and mobilise them to intensify their efforts in a bid to end police killings.