The Clicks store at the Chatsworth Centre has been spared from the surge of violent protests that threatened to engulf the country on Monday morning. Although the store briefly opened in the morning, they were quick to shutdown their shutters when word about protests in Berea, Pinetown, Kloof and the Durban CBD began to spread. Employee at the centre confirmed that the store was opened but soon shut and shoppers were met with the sign saying ‘closed for the day.” Naseera Mohamed, marketing manager of Chatsworth Centre, confirmed that the Chatsworth branch of the Clicks Pharmacy closed as a result of the nationwide protests. She said: “The store was closed on 7 September due to the protest in and around the Durban area. Clicks has taken full accountability and apologized unreservedly for the advertisement published on its website and has taken immediate action to address all concerns.” Mohamed said that the centre’s security was advised to remain on high alert as well. “There were no violent protests at Chatsworth Centre, however, management has asked security to remain on high alert and will take all necessary precautions to ensure the safety of our building, shoppers and tenants,” she said. This comes as mounting protests grow against the Clicks group following what was deemed as racist hair advertising. Clicks had recently advertised hair products which showed a black model to have what the advert regarded as “damaged hair” and a white model to have what was deemed “normal, fine and flat hair.” Businesses in the Durban CBD have said that the protest by Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members against the Clicks brand had a negative impact on them as EFF protesters blocked the entrance to the West Street store on Monday morning.  A neighbouring business, Grand Shoe, was highly affected and the manager, Ragini Naicker said the protest had a serious impact on their daily sales. “Today is supposed to be a very busy day for our store especially since it is a day for South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) grant payouts. Normally on these days of the month our store is very busy but today has been very quiet,” said Naicker. She said that since morning they saw no customers: “Customers coming to our shop are diverting and maybe this is because of fear and to avoid the protest.” A street vendor selling spices and cellphone accessories directly opposite from the Clicks store, Lungi Cele, said the protest is a real disturbance for them. “The protesters are making a noise right in front of us, there is not even enough space for us to put our merchandise. We do not know how long this will go on for,” Cele said. While addressing his fellow protestors, EFF Ethekwini regional chairman, Mlebuka Hlengwa said that the protests will continue till Clicks takes action. “As the EFF our mandate is to protect the rights of Black people. The advert or statement made by the advert discriminates against black people. We will fight until they tell us who came up with the concept and broadcast a retraction,” said Hlengwa. He said that the Clicks group was given a warning. “They were given a warning and were instructed to close their stores nationwide and they did not listen. Therefore we will help them to do it. We are giving them until 12 September to show respect. Until then the protests will continue,” Hlengwa said. Despite the continuing protest, customers were seen coming out of the store with some shopping. No violent action was taken by the protestors. CEO of Clicks, Vikesh Ramsunder, issued a statement on Monday apologising on behalf of the group and expressed his disappointment that insensitive and offensive images were allowed to be published on their website.He confirmed that the negligent employees have been suspended and that they have engaged the supplier, who has now also issued an apology.“As a company, we cannot change what happened, but we are learning from this. We are committed to effecting real, systemic change across our business that reflects our pride in being a truly South African company. We have done a lot in terms of transformation. This issue has clearly highlighted that we have a lot more to do,” said Ramsunder. He further said: “We appeal to all stakeholders to engage with us so that we redress actions to demonstrate our commitment to diversity and inclusion. We will take the necessary precautionary steps to ensure the safety and well-being of our customers and our employees. This includes dealing with the threat of the disruption of our business activities and intimidation of our customers and employees.”