Security has been beefed up at shopping centres around the country as Monday morning started off with mounting protests against the Clicks group following what was deemed racist hair advertising. This, after Clicks had advertised hair products which showed a black model to have what the advert regarded as ‘damaged hair’ and a white model to have what was deemed ‘normal, fine and flat hair.’ The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on the weekend called on mass mobilisation of protestors targeting Clicks stores across the country. “Clicks South Africa have decided that money is more important than respecting black people in South African” said a member of the EFF. A statement released by EFF on Sunday said: “The implications of this are that black identity exists as inferior to the identity of white people. It is an assertion that white standards of beauty are to be aspired to and the features of black people represent damage, decay and abnormality. This characterization is the founding stone of anti-black racism, and the EFF will not tolerate it.” One EFF member protesting at the Oval Centre in Ladysmith said: “We are here picketing peacefully. The only thing we are demanding is a public apology and to suspend those disrespecting black people. We are saying black lives matter and black dignity is very important.” At least one Clicks Store in Witbank was petrol bombed in the early hours of this morning. EFF leader, Julius Malema has also visited Clicks stores around Polokwane ensuring it stays closed. In KwaZulu-Natal many stores were shut down including Dr Pixley Kaseme St (West Street), Pinetown and Empangeni. Meanwhile twitter was abuzz with comments from Mmusi Maimane :” We cannot handle our difficult conversations the same way for 26 years. This Clicks saga is an example of how yet again we are not engaging with empathy, with compassion and with a view to build unity.” It seems like the protest is gaining momentum with more reports coming in. This is a developing story and updates will follow as new information unfolds.  Protestors outside Clicks in Dr Pixley Kaseme St (West Street), Durban Protestors outside Clicks at the Oval Shopping Centre, Ladysmith