Phoenix police are investigating a murder after a Pakistani national Rashid Khan, a manager at Phoenix Plaza Copper Chimney was fatally shot while seated in a vehicle on Flintstone Road, on Sunday night. Communications officer at Phoenix SAPS, Captain Louise Naidoo, said: “It is alleged by witnesses that the deceased was a passenger in a Nissan 1400 bakkie. An unknown person wearing a black hooded jacket and a mask approached the vehicle on foot. The vehicle was stationery at the gate. The suspect fired two shots at the victim. The suspect then fled the scene on foot.” Naidoo said that Khan was taken to Mount Edgecombe Hospital by the same vehicle he was in. “He succumbed to his injuries. He sustained gunshot wounds on the left side of the neck and on the middle lower back. No arrests were made and the suspect remains unknown. Police seized two 9mm spent cartridges. The motive for the shooting is unknown and will be investigated,” Naidoo added. Khan’s family and friends were shattered by the news of his death especially since his wife and three-year-old daughter are overseas. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, a friend who wished to remain anonymous said: “Rashid was a good man. He worked hard and he was kind. He tried to help people and everyone liked him. He had a good heart. He wanted to go overseas to see his family but because of the lockdown he had to wait. He was planning to go visit his family in January. “We cannot believe this has happened. I have known him for 15 years. We were friends but more like brothers. We want the police to find the person who did this and took away a husband, father, son, brother and friend.” Another close friend said: “Rashid was an awesome person. There are no words to describe him. He was just the best. We cannot believe that this has happened to him. We are all still shocked.” Nazira Bee Yasin, chairperson for the Flintstone, Swanstone and Hawkstone (FSH) street watch said: “We are heartbroken at the murder which claimed Rashid’s life. This is a nightmare. He was an incredible person. He did not deserve this. We have been banging on the municipality’s door about repairing the street lights in our area for the past few months. The street light outside the spot where Rashid was killed has not been working for months and the area was in pitch darkness. He probably did not even see the person coming.” She said that they have been logging calls and complaints to resolve the street light issue to no avail. “There have been various crime incidents in the area over the past few months including home invasions, attempted hijackings, muggings and theft. Now we must add murder to the list. The bush was cleaned by the community. We need the municipality to join hands with us and keep our community safe,” Yasin said. She said that they have been liaising with councillor, Samier Singh to assist them to fight community issues in ward 52. “On Monday, we as a neighbourhood went to the ward councillor’s office at the Whetstone Community Centre. We wanted to hand over a memorandum to him but he was nowhere to be found. We left a memorandum with his office and we await answers. We cannot wait for another life to be lost.” Councillor Singh said: “I heard about the heartless murder. I have been trying to assist the community in that area but the municipality and heads of departments do not reciprocate. Besides Flintstone Road, there have been so many other roads that have no lights. Desperate attempts have been made to address these issues but they fall on deaf ears. Now a life has been taken away in cold blood. Must there be more lives lost before any steps are taken to reach out to community members,” he asked. Phoenix Community Crime Forum (CPF) chairman, Umesh Singh, said: “We are met with news of yet another killing. More violence has spilt blood and snuffed out another life. We trust that police will get to the root of this murder and justice will prevail. We sympathise with the family of the deceased. We will strive for justice.” Attempts to contact ward 52 councillor were unsuccessful.