Tracey Klokie is the founder of a non-profit organisation called Hearts in Hands (HiH) that was established in March this year. The Westville Weekly Gazette spoke to Klolie to get to know more about her and the organisation and how it has impacted her as woman. Westville Weekly Gazette (WWG):How can you best describe Tracey Klokie?Tracey Klokie (TK): Passionate, empathetic, quirky and feisty. WWG: What do you think is the most important thing that people need to know about you?TK: I am a mom before anything else. I cannot in good conscience go home to my own family everyday and the blessings and abundance are surrounding us whilst other families cannot even feed themselves. WWG: What led you to charity work?TK: I have always felt a deep connection to social justice and making a difference in the world. Having been actively involved in the NGO space previously, assisting with fundraising for other NGOs and donating my time and money personally.†When Covid-19 hit, I simply felt compelled to get involved and make a difference as the suffering and hunger was so evident in our community. WWG: What does this work mean to you?TK: We all have a social responsibility to make a difference and change the status quo. If you cannot donate money or food, then donate your time. Go through your wardrobes, theres always a way we can help with what we have. Get involved in a community soup kitchen, feed one person, help one family. Change must start with each and every one of us. WWG: How long have you been doing charity work for?TK: I have been involved via other NGOs for approximately seven years now. However, Hearts in Hands was borne and registered in March 2020. WWG: Tell us more about HiH?TK: We are primarily a food bank, we are based in Hillcrest, Durban. Food is the single most basic of human rights and no family should ever go without food because of their socio and economic status, poverty, unemployment or the like. We provide food and toiletries to the most vulnerable and marginalised in the community. WWG: What is the most fulfilling thing about the work that you do?TK: Even though this is some of the most difficult work one can do, seeing and facing some of the most heart wrenching situations and stories daily and realise we cannot save the entire world although we may want to do so, the heart filling part is knowing that every small thing we do makes a difference in the life of another, then is it not that a great place to start. Seeing the relief on a parents face, knowing they will be able to feed their families is so gratifying, to know that we have touched lives and given hope to someone who was facing despair. WWG: What is the biggest challenge with the work that you do?TK: Lack of funding is a reality, especially at this uncertain and unprecedented times. People are unemployed, retrenched, some have their pay cut and are not in a position to donate funds. So it is a struggle to continue to do the work we do with limited to very little funding. This is a big challenge. WWG: What is your greatest achievement?TK: I have had my hurdles to overcome in my life. However, I would have to say that becoming a mom is my greatest achievement and blessing. As a parent, you cannot look at another parent struggle to feed their own children and not feel compelled to assist and show kindness. WWG: What is the most valuable lesson charity work has taught you?TK: That the uBuntu spirit is indeedalive and well in Durban, SA. I have seen families with so little reach out and share the little they have with their neighbours. It is so humbling and awe-inspiring.WWG: What is your biggest goal, and do you feel you have achieved it?TK: I have always been a ‘fly by the seat of my pants’ kind of person. I jump in with both feet before I have a chance to get scared. Say yes to everything and figure it out as you go. My biggest goal has always been to touch lives. Predominantly, whyI start my training and consulting company, Khwezi, as well as supporting NPOs and community movements which in turn led me to start my own. I still †have so many dreams and personal fun goals and they certainly do not have any expiry date. I would love to go sky-diving, to learn to crochet and also to travel and learn a new language WWG: What role do you believe that women should play in society?TK: Women are powerful, communicative, empathetic, and loving. We have a responsibility to change the status quoand to be an example to all young girls to show them that all their dreams are within their reach. With determination, grit and a sprinkle of crazy and by this I mean the adventurous, authentic, tenacity kind of crazy, anything can be achieved. We also have to teach young boys to show women the respect, dignity and equality that they deserve. WWG: What does being a womanmean to you besides the physical part of it?TK: Standing in my power, determined, focused and eye on the prize We are soft and resilient in equal measures. There is no force more powerful than a group of determined women. WWG: What is the most valuablething you believe all women should be taught?TK: To speak up, be heard.Do not diminish your right to voice your opinion and we determine what we allow and what we accept. As I get older I am less concerned with what people think of me and I own who I am authentically. WWG: What is your message to all women?TK: While you are nurturing and caring for everyone else, please remember to be kind to yourself and give yourself the love and kindness that you also deserve.