Infuriated residents of the Dakota Informal Settlement threw their weight behind the call to un-ban the azaan at the Taleemuddeen Musjid in Isipingo Beach. Residents from the informal settlement staged a protest outside the home of an unashamed and unapologetic Chandra Ellaurie who took to the courts to silence the Muslim call to prayer. Dakota residents in a memorandum said, “We, the people of Dakota informal settlement, Isipingo Beach were shocked and angry to hear from news reports and social media that the call to prayer (azaan) was banned from the mosque in Isipingo Beach. “The Isipingo Beach Muslim community helped us very much in the lock down and also help us and our children all year round. We want to express our support for the Isipingo Beach Muslim Community. “The azaan must not be stopped. We support the Muslims of Isipingo Beach in their right to freedom of religion. South African is a rainbow nation. Muslims must call the azaan. It is a message of greatness of God and call of peace. “No racism in South Africa, racists out! We will not rest and we will continue to protest in solidarity with our muslim brothers and sisters until they are free to call out the azaan.” Tracy Chiliza, who has lived in the Dakota informal settlement for 20 years, said nobody has ever complained about the azaan. “We were angry when we saw the report on TV about the azaan being stopped. The Muslims are good people. During the time of the lockdown they provided us with food and throughout the year they have supported us. They even gave my son school uniform. They care about the poor. There are so many people living here with different religions and we need to respect everyone’s religion. He wants the muslim community to leave but we think he should leave because he’s the only one with a problem” said Chiliza. Meanwhile, Durban activist and lawyer Shabnam Palesa Mohamed has taken the cause a step further. Mohamed is spearheading a public petition against the ruling and is calling for the immediate unbanning of the call to prayer. She wrote on her Facebook post: “How we deal with it is critical. Our response requires sensitivity, wisdom and ubuntu, or else the fractures created will become too deep to heal. Isipingo has an opportunity to be a beacon of hope.” Last week the Jamiatul Ulama KwaZulu-Natal challenged the judgement and so did the South African Muslim Network. Both the organisations said that the judgement was “ill-conceived” and smacked of intolerance. 