The centenary edition of the World Sports Betting Gold Cup was won in front of empty grand stands at Hollywoodbets Greyville Racecourse by 55-1 outsider paths of Victory ridden by S’manga Khumalo for trainer Gareth van Zyl and owner Mario Ferreira. The 3 200 metre marathon that took place on Saturday, 29 August rewards the best stayers saw Khumalo who won the Vodacom Durban July in 2013 aboard Heavy Metal, lead the slow paced race from start to finish, taking the five year old to the line to win from Paybackthemoney, Flitchety By Farr and then pre-race favourite Eyes Wide Open. Reporting on the his race, Gareth van Zyl said: “He’s a tricky horse, as you saw going down to the start.In the paddock I could see S’manga was in the zone”. Khumalo also shared his views concerning the race. “The plan was to find some cover, but he came his light weight Ithought that to ease out of it was the wrong thing to do. I thought, ‘I’ll just let you do your thing,” said Khumalo. In the favourites It’s My Turn and Marchingon together there was no sign. Paths Of Victory had them stretch outlike the washing shortly after the start and the opposition never made up any ground with Flichity By Farr and Paybackthemoney always close-up and the favourites some 20 lengths off the pace. According to World Sport Betting Gold Cup, earlier in the day the programme packed with four Grade One events saw the fancied Anything Goes keep her unbeaten record in taking the Ethekwini Stakes, after which the prized World Sports Betting Champions Stakes laurels went to Sentbydestiny, ensuring that Gold Cup Day 2020 is one Diego de Gouveia will cherish as he scored back-to-back Grade one victories. “The daughter of Master Of My Fate burst through with a telling late run out out-gun Golden Horseshoe winner Nobese and Crimson King who was also finishing with a wet sail. Van Halen then raced to victory in the World Sports Betting Mercury Sprint. The closest finish of the day came in the eagerly anticipated World Sports Betting Champions Cup, requiring a photo finish to separate Golden Ducat from Rainbow Bridge on the line, with Cirillo and former Vodacom Durban July winner Do It Again just off their pace. “The race day brought down the curtain on the KwaZulu-Natal Champions’ Season, which had to be boldly reshaped as the sport of horse racing led the way to competition, staging the key Vodacom Durban July and Saturday’s full World Sports Betting Gold Cup race day behind-closed-doors.