After almost seven months in lockdown, entertainers can finally dust off their instruments and warm up their voices to perform once again. Internationally renowned singer, Preetesh Singh said that the lockdown had forced many musicians to adapt to the new normal. Singh said: “The pandemic forced me and other musicians to cancel or postpone all live shows for the foreseeable future. But I learnt and adapted to these new and weird times of Covid-19. Finding innovative solutions, like virtual gigs and other online platforms, where a wider audience could be reached was something we had to figure out.” Singh began his musical journey at the age of seven when he learnt to play the harmonium and soon started singing Bhajans as well. His entrance into the mainstream eastern entertainment industry was fast tracked after he entered and won a singing contest in his mid-teens, despite being the only minor in the competition. “I have performed with the country’s most popular bands at venues throughout South Africa and across its boarders. More recently, I have performed in the United Kingdom, in both London and Leicester,” Singh said. Singh’s love for music was inherited by his daughter, Shrix Singh, who has featured in one of her father’s Bollywood mashup’s of The Chainsmokers and Coldplay’s, Something Just Like This and Arijit Singh’s, Channa Mereya. During the lockdown, the father daughter duo released a world first mashup comprising of Shaun Mendes’ song, There’s nothing holding me back and the popular Bollywood song from the nineties entitled Teri Chunaria. However, Singh said that virtual performances of his music did not compare to his live shows. He said: “The biggest challenge faced during the lockdown was that, as an artist, much of ones satisfaction is attained from performing, especially to a live audience. Live music brings hope, unity and joy and off course, the energy and movement on stage remains unparalleled.” More information on his upcoming events can be viewed on his Facebook page, Preetesh Singh Productions, via WhatsApp on 084 556 5079 or via email on preeteshsingh1@gmail.com.