Businesses in the Durban CBD have said that the protest by Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members against the Clicks brand had a negative impact on them as EFF protesters blocked the entrance to the West Street store on Monday morning. This came as mounting protests grow against the Clicks group following what was deemed racist hair advertising. Clicks had recently advertised hair products which showed a black model to have what the advert regarded as ‘damaged hair’ and a white model to have what was deemed ‘normal, fine and flat hair ‘ A neighbouring business, Grand Shoe, was highly affected and the manager, Ragini Naicker said the protest had a serious impact on their daily sales. “Today is supposed to be a very busy day for our store especially since it is a day for South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) grant payouts. Normally on these days of the month our store is very busy but today has been very quiet,” said Naicker. She said that since morning they saw no customers: “Customers coming to our shop are diverting and maybe this is because of fear and to avoid the protest.” A street vendor selling spices and cellphone accessories directly opposite from the Clicks store, Lungi Cele, said the protest is a real disturbance for them. “The protesters are making a noise right in front of us, there is not even enough space for us to put our merchandise. We do not know how long this will go on for,” Cele said. While addressing his fellow protestors, EFF Ethekwini regional chairman, Mlebuka Hlengwa said that the protests will continue till Clicks takes action. “As the EFF our mandate is to protect the rights of Black people. The advert or statement made by the advert discriminates against black people. We will fight until they tell us who came up with the concept and broadcast a retraction,” said Hlengwa. He said that the Clicks group was given a warning. “They were given a warning and were instructed to close their stores nationwide and they did not listen. Therefore we will help them to do it. We are giving them until 12 September to show respect. Until then the protests will continue,” Hlengwa said. Despite the continuing protest, customers were seen coming out of the store with some shopping. No violent action was taken by the protestors.