The 72nd Emmy Awards may have been virtual for the first time in the event’s history, but international shows on DStv picked up a host of very real awards, scooping 33 Emmys. The Emmy haul is a tribute to DStv’s mission to bring the best of the world home – showcasing the planet’s hottest shows. First-to-Showmax series Succession led the charge for the continent’s leading pay-TV provider  picking up five awards including outstanding drama series and lead actor in a drama series for Jeremy Strong. In Succession, four very rich siblings behave badly as they try to win their father’s approval – and control of his company, a global media empire. Watchmen – a series based on the 1986 DC Comics – won 11 awards, including outstanding limited series, outstanding lead actress in a limited series or TV movie for Regina King and supporting actor for Yahya Abdul-Mateen II. Best Supporting Actress in a limited series or movie went to Uzo Abuda for Mrs America, the story of the movement to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), and the unexpected backlash led by a conservative woman named Phyllis Schlafly, aka “the sweetheart of the silent majority.” Zendaya made history by becoming the youngest winner for best lead actress in a drama for Euphoria. She plays 17-year-old Rue who returns home from rehab with no plans to stay clean, and falls for the new girl in town, Jules (played by trans superstar Hunter Schafer). Bad Education secured the Emmy for best Television Movie. Based on the real-life scandal that went down at writer Mike Makowsky’s high school, where a student journalist uncovered the single largest public school embezzlement scheme in America’s history. The Emmys – which was broadcast live on M-Net, DStv channel 101 at 02:00 on Monday 21 September and will be repeated at 21:30 – took place virtually for the first time, with stars walking a virtual red carpet from home. For the red carpet event, catch E! Entertainment tonight at 21.30. CEO of General Entertainment  & Connected Video at MultiChoice Group, Yolisa Phahle says it was another stand-out year for DStv at The Emmys. “We’ve invested heavily in bringing our customers the best possible international shows to sit alongside our outstanding local productions, across our platforms, and we are incredibly proud to see so many of these shows recognised with critical acclaim that matches the love shown for them by our viewers.” DStv recently revealed a slew of new content and products at its annual Showcase event. “Based on the amazing shows we’ve secured for 2020 and into 2021, we are confident that our customers will have no shortage of award-winning shows this year, and beyond!” she says. The 72nd Emmy Awards was hosted by Jimmy Kimmel, with the Creative Arts Awards airing the night before. Check out the full list of winners here. 