Mervan Govender, a security guard who was shot dead during an armed robbery at the Tongaat CBD recently, has been described as a loving and hardworking person. It is alleged that the 43-year-old Jukelela Security officer was patrolling the car parking lot when he was approached by two men who were traveling in a silver VW Polo who opened fire on him. Govender was laid to rest at the Verulam Crematorium on Sunday, 30 August. Captain Patrick Ngwane, Tongaat SAPS spokesperson, said that a murder investigation is underway and no arrests have been made as yet. “We urge residents to come forward with information that will lead to the arrest of the culprit,” Ngwane appealed. Ragenee Pillay, Govender’s friend, said that he was a committed and hardworking armed response officer. “He was a very dedicated person, he loved his job and was very energetic. Mervan was a down to earth man who was fun to be around with. He was a friend to many and we hold onto the memories of him. His sudden death with bad circumstances has brought us all shock,” she said. Pillay said that Mervan will be sadly missed in the community for his great personality. “He will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved him,” she added. One of Govender’s close friends, Lynette Shriram, said that he was gone but not forgotten. “Govender’s jokes and smiles will forever live on. May Mervin rest in his creator’s hands and my heartfelt sympathy goes out to his family and friends,” she said.Harold Maistry, another friend, said that Govender was a loving and wonderful soul. “We worked very well together. It is a sad loss to the community and I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to the family,” he said. Prem Balram of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said that Govender had sustained a single gun shot wound to the head and was declared deceased on the scene by the paramedics. He said: “Our members were on patrol on Gopalall Hurbans Road at approximately 1.36pm when they were flagged down by the public reporting the shooting. The members found the body of a security guard lying in the parking lot.” Balram said that according to the witnesses, one suspect drew a revolver and shot the deceased in the head before they took his firearm. “The robbers fled the scene in their getaway vehicle, which did not have registration plates. They were pursued by onlookers, but managed to escape shortly after turning into Hambanathi area,” he added.