Chatsworth residents have welcomed the new window opened by the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) to change their payment option for their Covid-19 Social Relief of Distress Grant (SRD).Sassa CEO Totsie Memela announced the extension, last week, while urging beneficiaries to take advantage of this period from Monday, 31 August until 6 September. During this period, beneficiaries can change the method of payment from receiving their grants at the post office to receiving it through their personal bank accounts. They may also change from one bank to another if they prefer to do so.The news was well received by grant recipient Chris Pillay, who said that the opportunity to change his method of payment will be highly beneficial to him and the rest of the community. “This move will prevent so many hurdles which we have encountered thus far when collecting the special grant. I am just so glad that by making this change, I will not have to stand for an entire day in the sun, in a line where most people do not find the need to social distance,” Pillay said.Memela said that this move by Sassa is aimed at addressing challenges some beneficiaries have experienced while trying to access their special relief grant from their nearest post office. The snaking queues around the Chatsworth post office were a recent cause for concern for residents who witnessed people waiting in line from the early hours of the morning until closing time, with no social distancing in sight.Pillay said: “The SMS notification, which is used to limit the numbers of people reporting to a post office on a particular day and also to ensure that sufficient cash is available, is something that beneficiaries using the post office should be waiting for instead of crowding the area.”Memela said that clients who have opted to receive their SRD grant through cash transfer will get their August 2020 payment through this preferred method. “They must ensure that the cellphone numbers that they provided to Sassa, to receive payments, are registered in their own names and not names of other people like relatives or neighbours. It is mandatory that the cell phone number should have gone through the RICA (Communication-Related Information Act) process in order for payment to be done through it,” she said.Memela further explained that any citizen who does not update their information during this window period, or who provides incorrect banking details will have the payments for the remaining months sent through to the post office. Responses to frequently asked questions about the Covid-19 SRD grant can be found on the WhatsApp platform on 082 046 8553. Those beneficiaries approved for the grant can change their payment method using the link https://srd.sassa.gov.za.