Community Healthcare Workers (CHWs) from various healthcare facilities staged a protest at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital to highlight their plight on Tuesday, 1 September. Long standing community healthcare worker Bong’musa Magwaza said: “Since the year 2000, we are still not permanent employees, instead, every year our contracts get renewed. They started us off with only R700 after working an entire year without getting any stipend. After several years of working without any increase in wages, our contracts were eventually renewed and the wage was increased to R900. We then joined the National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers (NUPSAW) who advised that we were being exploited as we never received an increase for many years.” Magwaza said with the assistance of NUPSAW, they were able to start earning the living wage of R3500 in September 2018. “We have been frontline workers throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, taking care of the ill and delivering all their medication at their door steps. We even see to the people that cannot go to healthcare facilities because they have to go to work. We assist children without identity documents where we go to Home Affairs, using our own money and at times have to pay for their taxi fare as well. We also identify poor households that require assistance and hand their details to the department of social development to help them further,” said Magwaza. He said that since the Covid-19 pandemic began, they were not offered any protective equipment to use while on the field, yet they are at the forefront of everything. “When schools reopened this year, we were told to go to the local schools to conduct Covid-19 screenings for the pupils and when we questioned what protective measures were in place for us, we were told to provide our own masks. We are and have been soldiers at the forefront of this virus, I am one of the workers who was infected by Covid-19, our lives are at risk, we therefore demand a danger allowance and be considered for permanent employment.” NUPSAW provincial Sanele Ntombela said: “The National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers have since the early 2000s been tirelessly fighting for the betterment of the conditions of service for community health workers. The CWHs at some point were not regarded as employees and were not enjoying the benefits as public servants but were rather compensated with a stipend of less than R1500 per month.” He said that the Gauteng provincial government has absorbed the CHWs to at least salary level 2 effective from July. “We demand that the two departments, health and social development, come to their senses and absorb CHWs to salary level 5 or alternatively put them on salary level 2 as the Gauteng provincial government recently did while further engagements are continuing to fully absorb them to salary level 5 in line with our national demand. As we put the workers first, NUPSAW is going to continue exerting pressure on the employer,” added Ntombela.