A Phoenix resident, Philile Mthethwa said that she was very disappointed with the service she received at a local bank which she has been a long-standing client with. This after over R2000 went missing from her account. Mthethwa claimed the first incident occurred in May where she noticed that something was wrong with her bank balance after filling petrol. “I noticed a huge difference in the amount compared to the last balance that appeared and it was strange that I did not receive an SMS notification about any withdrawals, which I normally get for any use of my bank card. I went to the bank to report that my money had disappeared and I had not done any withdrawals nor did I get any notifications. I requested the bank statement which reflected that there was airtime worth R469 that was purchased on four different days which amounted to R1 876 00,” said Mthethwa. “I explained to the male consultant that was assisting me, that I did not know anything about the airtime. He asked who I lived with and I told him that I reside with my 75-year-old mother and my children lived in their own place. When I requested the telephone number where this airtime was used he refused to give it to me and advised me to go to the police station and open a case first. He said nothing could be done until I open a case with SAPS.” Mthethwa claimed she proceeded to the Phoenix police station on 25 May to open a case and went back to the bank with the case number. “Upon arrival at the bank, I was told that there will be a person who will be dealing with my case from the bank. A few days later, someone called me and said he was calling on behalf of the bank regarding my complaint. He asked who I stayed with at home and who had access to my phone. I told him that no one had access to my phone and his response was nothing can be done on the side of the bank regarding my complaint,” said Mthethwa. “The recent incident took place on 19 August where I noticed that a sum of money from my account had gone missing, again, without receiving an SMS notification. I went back to the bank to report this and a statement was printed. I discovered that an airtime worth R300 was purchased from my account. According to the bank’s records, the airtime was loaded to my grandson’s cellphone. This to me was very strange because my grandson lives in Empangeni and I did not buy any airtime for him,” added Mthethwa. “The bank insisted that I bought the airtime for my grandson. I asked to see the manager, who told me the same, dismissing anything I had to say. This was very frustrating because the bank closed my case without conducting any further investigations regarding my account. The strangest part is that I do not get any SMS notifications when this fraudulent act is being done, yet I get notifications for every other purchase I make using my bank card. Being a long-standing client at this bank and the way in which my case was handled is very disappointing and unfair. “The bank did not even give my case the time of day let alone reimburse me the money that was taken off my account. Banks should prioritise and protect their clients and work against them. I can only imagine how many other clients are being treated this way,” added Mthethwa. The bank responded: “After launching an investigation, we can confirm that this is a case of friendly fraud. Our forensics team has been in contact with the client who identified the cellphone number receiving the airtime as her grandson’s. “SMS notifications were sent to the client’s registered cellphone number to inform them of the purchases and was likely deleted by the person committing the fraud. We urge clients never to share their passwords with anyone and to avoid those that can be easily guessed, such as your date of birth. Your banking profile can only be accessed on our app if another person has your pin.” SAPS communications officer, Captain L. Naidoo confirmed that a fraud case was opened by Philile Mthethwa against the bank, in May, earlier this year.