Chaos reigned at the offices of the Department of Home Affairs in Umngeni Road, on Wednesday, when funeral practitioners protested in continuation of their three day national shutdown which was announced by the Unification Task Team (UTT) on Sunday. The practitioners said that the shutdown of Home Affairs was to address issues pertaining to their designation numbers and certificates for the examination which some of the practitioners wrote back in 2015. Muzi Hlengwa, UTT KZN convener, said that in order for undertakers to qualify as designated death registration officers, they are required to write an exam which is administered by the Department of Home Affairs and if they pass the test they are then given a certificate which endorses them to register deaths. ”Since 2015, our officials have not received any correspondence from the department, this office in particular and we want to know why,” said Hlengwa. He said that he spoke to the district director general at the Umngeni branch who requested that a list of the officials who wrote the examination be submitted to them so that they can follow up and he would respond in two weeks. “We want answers now. We will shut down this office until we get answers. The death registration office will not operate until we are given those designation numbers,” said Hlengwa. The public who woke up in the early hours, to arrive at the DHA  to register birth certificates, apply for IDs and other documents at the offices were left unattended during the protest. Among the people waiting to be assisted, were grade 12 pupils applying for ID documents. They said that they were really disappointed that they could not be assisted because of the protest. They further said that they felt as if their entire morning was a waste of precious time which they would have used to study for their upcoming examinations. A mother, Fikile Jiyane who brought her daughter who is in matric for an ID application said: ” What upsets me is that I woke up early and took the day off just to come here. My daughter will be writing her exams soon and with this day going to waste, there will be delays in processing her application. This is really unfair.” She said that the least that could have been done by the DHA officers was to give them an explanation of what was going on. Attempts to speak to DHA Umngeni were made, however, phone lines were ringing with no answer. On Monday, funeral parlours downed their tools heeding the call from UTT. A Durban private funeral parlour director, Neeshal Jagarnath said that he was not in support of the shutdown. Jagarnath said that the call for a shutdown is against his constitutional right and is undignified as it will disallow bereaved families the rights to bury or cremate their loved ones according to their cultural belief. He said he was however, in support of the call to have tender processes abolished as many undertakers do not qualify or meet the criteria and he believed that the system is riddled by corruption. Some directors felt that the shutdown was not necessary, however, they were left without a choice and had to stop operations. It is alleged that one black owned undertaker who was open for business on Monday was attacked by a group who demanded that he close business with immediate effect. UTT demanded that operations are halted until government gives them a written agreement to the demands raised by the funeral practitioners. “No bodies were to be removed from hospitals and homes and no burials are to take place until this happens,” said Hlengwa. Hlengwa said that they are not fighting the community or their clients but are fighting government, and have given hospitals an option to call the SAPS if there are bodies which need to be moved from the hospitals or from a crime scene to a mortuary. In the late hours of Monday, Hlengwa confirmed that they had reached an agreement with government, however, they were still awaiting a written agreement. “We are waiting for government to give us the outcomes of the meeting held with our leaders, however in return we were informed that they circulated a different instruction. We will continue with the strike and each day will be more intense,” said Hlengwa. Last week, eThekwini Municipality issued a statement requesting that undertakers operating within the city, legally or illegally come forward so that they are added to the municipal data base. The municipality said that having the undertakers on a database would ensure that the industry is well regulated.