A team of counsellors, medical staff and general assistants is working around the clock to ensure the safety of abandoned babies in the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast by offering counselling and an annonymous drop-off point at the Turning Point Baby Saver and Counselling Centre. A ‘baby safe,’ which is located at the Port Shepstone Baptist Church on Ridge Road, can be used to safely leave a child. Cisca van Zyl from the orginisation, said that the safe haven has been operational for three weeks and has already made a difference in the life of 12 young girls who came looking for help. “We not only offer a safe drop-off point for abandoned babies but also offer counselling to those in need,” van Zyl. She said that the imported baby safe is full automated and allows for abandoned babies to be rescued while offering anonymity and the security of knowing that the child will be found. “The baby is placed inside, and removed within five minutes of the door being closed. It is completely safe. Once the door is closed an alarm is triggered, there is a four-person team that is always on standby. We have medical personnel as well on the team and and the baby is immediately taken into care,” van Zyl said. She said that the organisation was born out of the need of offering a safe haven for orphaned children and abandoned babies, which is a crisis in South Africa. According to the National Adoption Coalition, an estimated 3 500 children are abandoned annually in SA and 70 percent of these abandonments are done so in an unsafe environment such as bins and pit toilets, and a number of the babies are never found. Van Zyl, said the safe is a better alternative. “There are no cameras and you will not be charged with child abandonment because the baby would have been dropped-off safely. The child will then be placed in a home where they will be looked after,” she added. In June, the Department of Social Development appealed to non-profit organisations for assistance amid reports of increased child abandonment cases during the Covid-19 lockdown period. Lumka Oliphant, department spokesperson, said: “Covid-19 is causing great social and economic challenges for many families as their circumstances are changing. The department remains committed to the delivery of all child care services, whilst ensuring the safety and wellbeing of children is paramount this time. One of the alternative care options that the Department renders to children in need of protection, including abandoned children is adoption which gives them a permanent or stable family life.” Van Zyl confirmed that Turning Point Baby Saver and Counselling Centre is registered by the department they are appealed to the public for help in keeping the babies safe and comfortable. She said: “With the rainy season upon us, we would like to put a awning over the safe, it is just for some cover to protect against the rain, among other thing. We also appeal for baby toiletries, formula, clothes, food and nappies.” The items can be dropped-off at their premises at the Port Shepstone Baptist Church on Ridge Road which is located on the side road opposite Port Shepstone Hospital. For more information, email kznhotspots@gmail.com or contact Cisca van Zyl on 082 353 5556 alternatively visit their Facebook page KZN South Coast Hot Spots-Turning Point Crisis Counselling. Other baby safes in KZN can be found at Choices for Life: Impilo Baby Haven in Amanzimtoti, Isiaiah 54 Children’s Sanctuary in the Bluff, The Domino Foundation in Durban North, Likhon iThemba Charity Hop Shop found in Glenwood and Thandi House located in Pietermaritzburg.