“It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.’’ – Indian-Chinese proverb. Not everyone can get a president’s attention. Everyone can write an open letter to the president in the public space and get your moment of fame, but when a president – under a six-month siege of the coronavirus campaign jives to the lilting rhythmic African beat of Jerusalema in the corridors of political power at the Union Buildings, now we are talking big time. This inspirational new, second national anthem spliced within our pantheon of eleven official languages ahead of Heritage Day, could help us to breathe new confidence in tackling the calamity of the coronavirus scourge that brought about a shattered economy, and a frightening forecast of a 51 percent unemployment amidst a financial red-flagging of borrowing billions of rands. Once the clocked ticked on the midnight run into a new dawn from this week, citizens, compatriots and comrades must close ranks and put the future of the country first and make SA work again. Maybe, we should adopt a new work mantra ‘Go Big or Go Home’ meaning we must reinvent ourselves, become risk takers and kickstart new businesses or projects that will create new money so that people can get meaningful work and put food on the table for their family. Inspired by one of the world’s oldest cities, Jerusalem-the new and old city showcases the living legacy of the Abrahamic troika religions – Judaism, Christianity and Islam – another ancient parable of how we must continue to preserve our religious- cultural heritage. The opening lines of the lyrics go like this: “Jerusalema ikhaya lami – Jerusalema is my home”. Master KG and Nomcebo Zikode’s home-brewed hit-song and line dancing routine currently chalking 110 million hits on social media has got the whole world dancing to a new beat, the world needed a Covid-19 global theme and a comic relief song and dance dose and diagnosis for coronovarus sans a life-saving new vaccine. Surprisingly, President Cyril Matamela Ramaphosa, closed his lockdown face the nation speech by throwing down the gauntlet to our fatigued folks to put on your dancing shoes and get down to the Jerusalema Dance Challenge on Thursday, 24 September , Heritage Day. Post apartheid SA celebrates this newest holiday in recognition of our entire colourful cultural heritage under the one country, many cultures banner.Now hold your horses, the el supremo of liberation politics is not banning the traditional culture of braai and beer day, but has merely messaged the nation of diverse colours, cuisine and culture to also put our best foot forward and display some patriotic vision for a unique, multiracial homeland.
If Durban’s own celebrated selfie and social media king, the ubiquitous Logie Naidoo, and his successor at the city hall, Facebook favourite Fawzia Peer, can swop their disused political diaries as one-time deputy mayors and publicly demonstrate their dancing skills, and yes, we can do it. Also, many of us can start learning to sing the lyrics of a song that also emulates Simon & Garfunkel’s hit maker, Homeward Bound. Twenty-five years ago, at the dawn of democracy, we all sang from the same hymn sheet – Shosholoza (Stimela Siphumé SouthAfrica). We borrowed the Ndebele folk song from Zimbabwe when migrant miners bellowed the tune from the bowels of apartheid-colonial’s gold, diamond and platinum rare reserves. The popular people’s song was also immortalised as cappella soundtrack of screen icon, Clint Eastwood’s narration of our politics of rugby in Invictus, in which Morgan Freeman scrummed brilliantly and epitomised President Mandela’s political passion, albeit huge frustrations and alienation from his ANC aides, when the new sports bosses wanted to dump the green-and-gold emblem on history’s scrapheap. Before Shosholoza, exiled trumpeter Hugh Masekela blew the blue notes of Stimela, a haunting sound of the migration of miners by train. Exiled Miriam Makeba partnered American civil rights-singer legend Harry Belofonte, gave great hope to lonely exiles and émigrés when they crooned the famous Swahili love song, Malaika (meaning Angel). The foot-stompin’challenge is at your feet – jive to Jerusalema as per presidential dance decree. And as a bonus for very good behavior and more social conveniences – Bobby Ferrin’s Don’t Worry, Be Happy will get us past the next lockdown. So, songs and dances have shaped our chequered history. During the mid-week holiday partying, take a gratitude stroll for a government that has heard your wild cries to ease the hard lockdown – most vociferous are the smoking and booze brigades – for a more socially and economically viable lockdown alert level one, but beware of the caution in the winds of change in the coronavirus campaigns. On this Heritage Day, let us keep our cultural flames burning and remember: east-west, home is the best – “Jerusalema ikhaya lami – Jerusalema is my home”. Until next week, wear a mask, keep your social distance, download the Covid-19 App, don’t drink and drive and take heed and beat the countdown to the curfew at midnight.
Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist who heads a media communication strategy, publishing and research consultancy, belongs to the Southern African Freelancers’ Association (SAFREA), SA Editors’ Forum (SANEF) and the Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International) and is an independent political and social commentator and continues to write columns and leading articles and opinion-editorial commentary for newspapers, magazines, TV and radio, online digital and social media platforms. Marlan can be contacted via email:marlan.padayachee@gmail.com.