Ratepayers associations are a must and every area must have one. This is what the founder and chairperson of the Active Citizens Coalition and eThekwini Secure, Imtiaz Syed believes. Syed, a community leader and activist, who also sits on the KZN police CPF provincial board, was speaking in an exclusive interview on Tabloid Talk, the latest digital instalment of Tabloid Newspapers.With communities saddled with poor service delivery issues, Syed was asked whether it was important for the revival of ratepayers associations to address these issues hard and critically. He said that while every area needed guidelines around what a body should be doing, it must be done in conjunction with councillors and the government. Tabloid Talk host, Mohammed Ismail, pointed out that councillors “were few and far between”. Syed said: “Absolutely. Some councillors do not attend meetings and they are just there basically for that position and their salary. That is a given. Hence, you have to have ratepayers associations to start pushing agendas that we need.” He said that those agendas would need to be guided. ” There needs to be a clear understanding of what the do’s and the don’ts are, and which departments deal with what needs to be in place,” he said. “To go into the details of where we come from and when it comes down to where we are as a society and service delivery in its entirety, as businesspeople, managers and supervisors, when we sit in strategic planning meetings we look at things such as: “How does this business grow? How does it become better? How do we change things? Do we need to do renovations, do we need to paint? These are projected long-term goals and plans of growth,” said Syed. He said South Africa does not operate on that level. It only operates on an emergency response plan. “If there is a pipe leaking, let’s go and fix it. If there is a pothole, let’s fix it. Right now if you go through the roads of Overport, the lightpoles are still from pre-1994. The renew is not there. It is repair. We have not come to a point as a country to replace. We have not moved forward at all. Yes, there are bridges being built, our communities are growing, all that I get. There is no strategic plan to change ailing infrastructure in the Overport area, for example.” Syed said that it comes down to the cost of the ratepayer within the district and within the ward. “If there are 100 leaks within a particular ward, where do those contractors get paid from? It gets paid from municipality. It comes down to how much did this ward costs us in terms of water repairs in a particular month. You cannot look at government as government needs to be run by politicians. Politicians need to be well-versed in business in order to run a country. In fact, a country is business,” said Syed. He said that all the community sees is state-owned enterprises failing. “If you look at the eThekwini Municipality and the water department, they are a state owned enterprise. They charge consumers for a particular service and they are supposed to deliver that service. Is that service sufficient? Are the funds being utilised properly? These are things yet to be investigated and looked into,” he said. Syed said that these are the questions that we need to ask ourselves at ratepayers association levels. He said the communities needed to become more active in the face of dying activism. He said that any civic organisation formed for the benefit of the community does not speak with a collective understanding or with one voice. “In a particular area you might have a ratepayers association, but they only concentrate on the issues that they face and they are trying to deal with those issues internally first and then try to find municipalities or government departments that can assist them with their problem.“What we are saying is that there is a body that consists of all the rate payers associations and we have one identification platform saying that there are common issues, then let us take that to government and say there are challenges with the water infrastructure, what is being done about it? What are the short-term and long-term solutions? What are the time frames to resolve it?” said Syed. Syed said that such an umbrella body to speak with one voice is in the pipeline and will be launched soon.