The shack dwellers of Hiltop informal settlement in Canelands, Verulam, said that they are willing to pay for power when it is legally connected. This follows the move by the eThekwini Municipality to supply the informal settlement with electricity by installing power cables and poles, last week. For years, the residents have been demanding that they too be connected to the power grid, legally. This as illegal connections, from the nearby substation, has been causing havoc and power cuts due to overloading. Earlier this year, residents approached Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid demanding answers from the municipality over the ongoing power outages in the area, which had left dwellers in the darkness for weeks. Ntokozo Biyela, a resident, said that he was ecstatic about the installation of power in the area. “Everyone is happy about the project. We are ready to pay for the proper electricity. Our dreams of having proper power is finally coming true,” he said. Another resident, Phumlani Nxumalo, said that the community was initially for people who could not afford to pay rent at places of living around Canelands and decided to erect shacks on the vacant land. “We have been living in the area for years without proper sanitation, water and electricity. I am grateful for the small change that is happening now and I am willing to pay for the power,” he said. Nxumalo admitted that it was wrong to illegally connect power. He said: “We know it is wrong, but because of the situation we live in, we ended up doing this. We have kids and we want to keep our fridges on to ensure the safety of food.” Informal dwellers recently embarked on a violent protest along the R102, which culminated in a multi-vehicle collision between King Shaka International Airport and Canelands. This after illegal connections were taken down in the area and residents retaliated by barricading both sides of the R102 with burning tyres, logs, debris and rocks. Protesters were blamed after nine people were reportedly injured in the collision of three vehicles. The shack dwellers blamed the municipality for failing to restore their power.
Geoff Pullan, ward 58 councillor, said that he was glad that the municipality has finally adhered to his request to have the informal settlement electrified. “I communicated with the municipality and instructed the officials that they must electrify the area to prevent violent protests. The dwellers are looking forward to the completion of this project and so am I,” he said.