Two men were arrested for sexual assault with a second charge of being in possession of a dangerous weapon after the suspects forcefully fondled a 20-year-old woman, opposite a local hospital recently. In an effort to turn the tide against crime especially violence against women, Sergeant Govender and Constable Vanda’oh acted immediately after a case of sexual assault was reported at Chatsworth SAPS. Within one hour of the crime being committed, the two suspects aged 22 and 24 were arrested. Captain Cheryl Pillay, communications officer of Chatsworth SAPS, said that the incident occurred on 30 August at about 10pm. She said that the family members had parked their vehicle opposite a local hospital when the 20-year-old female victim got out to purchase a meal from a nearby tuckshop. “While awaiting her meal, two suspects armed with a knife began fondling her in an inappropriate way. A relative who came to her assistance was assaulted when he attempted to rescue her.
The victims managed to free themselves and proceeded to the police station to report this case. The description of the suspects assisted police in zoning into the location where the suspects were last seen resulting in the arrests,” Pillay said. The suspects were found in possession of a knuckle duster knife which is believed to have been used during the commission of the offence. The station commander of Chatsworth SAPS, Brigadier Kevin James applauded the swift actions from the members resulting in the apprehension of the suspects.
He said: “Police will work around the clock to ensure that criminals who commit crimes against defenceless women are arrested and placed before the Department of Justice. Police advise residents to park their vehicles in well-lit areas. Women and children are easy targets for criminals therefore ensure that you walk in groups remaining aware of your surroundings at all times.” Report suspicious vehicles or persons to Chatsworth SAPS on 031 451 4267 alternatively call Police Emergency Service Centres on 10111.