A woman in her 20s was found deceased in a swamp in Isipingo, along Phila Ndwandwe Road (Old Main Road) opposite the transit camp, yesterday (Friday). Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Isipingo SAPS communications officer Captain David Ragavan, said, “Isipingo police responded to the scene where the body of a woman was found in the swamp. The victim was deceased with bruising on her neck. It is alleged that the suspect, a male believed to be about 35 years old, together with an accomplice, robbed the victim of her cellphone.” He added, “The victim was dragged into the swamp where she was throttled. She was declared deceased on scene.” “The community found out about the crime and searched for the suspects. One suspect was apprehended and assaulted by the angry mob. The second suspect made a swift getaway,” said Cpt Ragavan. “A case of murder and robbery is under investigation by Isipingo SAPS. The deceased’s next of kin was informed of her tragic death. We urge members of the public to refrain from unnecessary commuting as the government stipulated and for one’s own safety,” he said. Spokesperson for PT Alarms Tactical Unit, Dhevan Govindasamy, who also responded to the scene, said, “The aggrieved community came out in their numbers baying for the suspects blood. PT Tactical Unit, together with officers from the South African Army, SAPS and Metro Police had to work jointly to maintain order on scene. The community is fed up of marauding criminals who target innocent people trying to survive especially during this lockdown period.” “Criminals are exhibiting such violence against their victims.  A man was also found murdered in Isipingo Rail yesterday morning (Friday). PT Alarms Tactical responded to the scene where the body was found on a resident’s driveway,” said Govindasamy.“We need the community to respect the lockdown regulations and remain at home. Do not compromise your health and safety for trivial reasons. Lockdown crimes are occurring as suspects are desperate during this time.PT Alarms Tactical and Response units are patrolling in Isipingo, Durban and surrounding areas and have found members of the public loitering aimlessly without masks and gloves. There are still long queues at stores. This kind of behaviour is not helping the current situation in our country and province,” Govindasamy said.