The South African Muslim Network (SAMNET), the Islamic Medical Association of South Africa (IMASA) and the Minara Chamber of Commerce (MCC) have collectively said that they support the chairperson of the portfolio committee on health, Dr Sibongiseni Maxwell Dhlomo in his call to president Cyril Ramaphosa and his Covid-19 command council to reject the call to allow the selling of alcohol during the National State of Disaster lockdown. The organisations have said that they recognise that some sections of the industry has been crippled by the lockdown and this has placed the economy under severe strain. “We recognise that the industry, like all other non-essential industries, have been crippled by the lock down and placed under severe strain,” said Samnet’s Dr Faisal Suliman in a joint statement. The organisations have, at the same time, identified “critical and pressing” sectors that should be prioritised for relaxation. “We also acknowledge, that the lack of trade does have direct impact to State revenue in income tax, levies and to employment. However, we feel that this call is irresponsible and not in the interests of the greater public. The ban on alcohol sales has definitely been associated with a reduction in a number of crimes during the lockdown and confirms the minister of police’s recent presentation to Parliament portfolio committee showing a direct correlation between alcohol consumption and crimes especially heading into weekends,” he said. The oganisations said that there was “extensive evidence” of alcohol being a contributory factor in the instances of gender-based violence and assault of women. They said that they were “certain” that the availability of alcohol would aggravate this situation. “We need to consider that exposing children within homes to alcohol even if consumed outside of taverns and bars is not conducive to their safety, education and socialisation. “It is common cause that alcohol consumption is often associated as a social event and at a point in time when we need to ensure social distancing, any relaxation in the current prohibition will almost definitely result in large parts of the community undertaking irresponsible behaviour and ignoring social distancing. The organisations said that after consultation with the Chamber of Commerce they have identified the following industries that offer “more valuable and constructive services” needed at this time: These include but are not restricted to: Basic DIY Hardware and construction materials, especially where emergency repairs and improvements need to be made. Educational material especially where it supports students learning from home under what is an extended lockdown like laptops, textbooks and school stationary. Clothing and textiles, especially as we approach the winter season. Essential home and business Electrical and plumbing services, which are largely delivered independent of public interaction. Delivery only services for “white goods” and appliances for those who have to replace or repair essential home appliances like fridges and freezers. Online and delivery only businesses, where there is no physical interaction between the public consumer and suppliers. “By limiting businesses to delivery, we would allow small businesses to trade with limited risk to the public. This should be supported by a campaign for people to buy from local businesses and not only large online retailers. Furthermore, this can be linked to limiting the number of employees at business premises to ensure that only critical staff travel to and from work. “We would also propose that to support employment and business and ‘get the economy working’ the Sunday and public holiday double time rule be relaxed during lockdown. This will incentivise businesses to work seven days. Restrictions on the 40 to 45 hour work week must remain to protect employees,” said the joint statement.