Since the beginning of the Covid-19 lockdown, eThekwini Electricity has suspended its meter reading service. The municipality has stated that since then all the bills issued to the customers have been estimated, based on past history. Whilst historical readings are fairly accurate for residential customers, business and commercial customers are being billed on their higher consumption pre-lockdown. The municipality said it was aware that businesses are undergoing some distress and therefore have brought in additional resources to provide some relief for SMMEs, in a bid to ensure that businesses are billed only for the electricity they use. The municipality encouraged business customers to : Businesses are required to include the name of the business, account number and contact details in the body of the email. All large owner users on the Industrial Time-of-Use, Commercial Time-of-Use and 3 Part Bulk tariffs are read remotely and need not submit their meter readings. Meanwhile, residents in the Durban suburbs have had issues even prior to lock down, however, during the lock down period many say they have not even received their bills of which are normally emailed or posted to them. A resident in Glenwood said; “The whole new billing system is a problem and has been since they implemented the change over to the new system. Billings are a lot higher by far than they used to be and when you try to query you get told to first pay or you will be cut. After payment then you can query, ” said the resident. She said that now with the lockdown, people are obviously using more electricity as they forced to stay home in accordance with the lockdown rules. “Televisions are on all day, fans are on, more cooking is being done, lights are used more, cell phones are charging at home. This is not helping as they know people are battling and will hit us with high bills. They need to assist residents with bills, not just demand payment and cut people who battle to pay after lockdown who have not been receiving an income,” she added.