Just over a week into the lockdown and the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in South Africa is now at 1655 as at today, 6 April with 11 reported dead. Tabloid Newspapers (TN) chatted one on one to Professor Thumbi Ndung’u, to explore the effects of the lockdown . Professor Ndung’u is the head of the HIV Pathogenisis Programme at the University of KwaZulu-Natal as well as Biomedical Research and Interventions, Virology and Immunology. Ndung’u is also a member of the African Health Research Institute. TN: Regarding the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, are we being responsible during the lockdown? Ndung’u: My view is that most South Africans have been fairly responsible and understand the seriousness of the situation.  However, socioeconomic conditions of a large population in this country make it difficult to fully adhere to government recommendations.  For example, some people simply have to go to work to put food on the table, some have to use public means of transport or have had to go to crowded spaces to receive their social grant payment.  This makes it difficult to fully enforce social distancing. TN: Do you think we will be able to flatten the curve by the end of the lockdown?Ndung’u: Although difficult to predict, there certainly seems to be an effect already.  However, we need a sustained effort in social distancing in one form or another, even after the lockdown is over. TN: What do you think are some of the flaws of the lockdown? It is believed that the lockdown benefits mostly middle to upperclassmen families, do you agree?Ndung’u: The lockdown is difficult to implement for citizens living in small confined spaces such as informal settlements, for those using public transport and for those whose earnings are extremely low and have to work to have a meal for the day.  In such cases, a lockdown is difficult to implement. It is easier for those with higher incomes to adhere to the lockdown. TN: From a health perspective, how do you think people in informal settlements are dealing with this? Do you think that the implementation of community healthcare workers conducting screenings will assist them?Ndung’u: People in South Africa have taken government directives seriously and this is commendable.  This is particularly so for people in poor communities in informal settlements. Community screenings are laudable and likely to reduce the spread of infection but they will require non-trivial logistical coordination and resources. TN: Are we possibly just looking at the initial stages of the virus?Ndung’u: We are in the beginning of the epidemic in South Africa. We have an opportunity to flatten the curve, and it is commendable that our government has recognized that and acted accordingly. It is difficult for everyone but we are seeing a tremendous government response and people coming together for the common good. TN: Do you see an extension of the lockdown on the cards?Ndung’u: This is difficult to predict. I would rather wait for the government to guide us on this aspect rather than speculate. TN: What can South Africans do to make the lockdown period work in their favour, preventing the spread of the virus?Ndung’u: Stay at home.