The Durban University of Technology Executive Management Committee (EMC) has partnered up with the Executive Committee of Senate (SENEX) and have endorsed a proposal to establish a special committed and compassionate Durban University of Technology (DUT) Covid-19 Solidarity Fund. Committee members, who will be represented by the five top levels of management, will make contributions towards the fund from their monthly salaries. “To kick-start the DUT Covid-19 Solidarity fund, members of the group will contribute, as a collective, a minimum amount of R282 619 per month, for the next three months. Given that this is just a minimum, some of the members in this category and in other categories, will be contributing more depending on their personal and family circumstances. Given the minimum, we estimate that this group of staff members will contribute close to R1 million over the next three months,” said DUT’s communications manager, Noxolo Memela, in a statement earlier this week. This fund will provide relief for members of the DUT community, especially their vulnerable students who have faced the brunt of the current Covid-19 pandemic. The university promotes commitment and compassion as two of the values and principles that the DUT Covid-19 Solidarity Fund will be aimed at demonstrating, in line with the President’s Solidarity Fund, by providing care and support to the most vulnerable within the DUT Community. The fund will be administered by the university’s Advancement and Alumni Relations department and will be used for care and support programmes, which are two of the aims specified in the National Covid-19 Solidarity Fund. DUT will also be setting aside funds towards prevention and detection, the other two aims of the National Covid-19 Solidarity Funds. Thus far, the University has allocated R4.5 million towards this. “Prevention and detection programmes will be particularly important to assure safety and health when lockdown ends and our staff and students eventually return to the University,” said Memela. Management urges other members of staff, students, alumni, external partners, service providers and friends of DUT to make their financial contributions, of any amount, towards the DUT Covid-19 Solidarity Fund. The university’s Chief Financial Officer, Mrs Nthanyiseni Dhumazi and their Senior Director of Human Resources, Dr Vuyo Mthethwa, will be working closely with Professor Sibusiso Moyo, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Research, Innovation and Engagement to ensure that the DUT Covid-19 Solidarity Fund is in place before the end of the national lockdown on 30 April.