Together with having to deal with the emotional and financial toll of the current extended lockdown, Ladysmith residents have also been asked to safe guard themselves, against scam artists who are extorting money out of desperate people by offering them government employment. Residents are being warned against a caller, who identifies himself as Mr Mkwenya , who has been calling councillors and community leaders claiming to be from the Ladysmith Provincial Hospital, offering work to six females and three males with a matric certificate. The caller claims that  these people will be used to assist in new testing and screening of people in the various areas in Ladysmith. Mr. Makweya, which has been established as not his real name, also sent out sms messages to people, offering employment as caregivers.  The Ladysmith Herald spoke to Councillor Mike Suddaby, who said that he received a call from a  gentleman, who spoke in a deep and slow voice, claiming he was calling from the Ladysmith Hospital. “He had asked for six females and three males with matric, who were urgently required to start work, and if I could pass the message on to the Ladysmith community”, said Cllr Suddaby. He then checked his phone and saw he’d received an sms message from the same number, claiming that he is looking for home caregivers to work in and around Ladysmith.  In the texts he promises employment and payment of R 2500. Administration at the Alfred Duma Local Municipality have warned people that this is scam. “Please people of Ladysmith beware, they are contacting our councillors and traditional leaders, creating a false sense of hope and taking advantage of those who are desperately seeking employment,” said Alfred Duma Municipality. “It appears to be a big scam and this chap – including all like him – must be tracked down, charged and hopefully locked up,” said Dr Imran Keeka, member of the KZN Legislature / Provincial Parliament and DA KZN spokesperson on education. Dr Keeka added that the Government departments will not be calling citizens and asking for deposits.  “This is the biggest tell-tale sign that this is fraud. We can’t have people exploiting the unemployed during these very hard economic times on top of having to deal with the COVID19 pandemic. I’m sure there are many other grifters out there preying on vulnerable people. There are even reports of these scoundrels in the education sector. We must all be vigilant and assist authorities where possible to out them and catch them”, he said. The matter has  been reported to the Ladysmith Police. A detailed email was sent to the Department of Health, but at the time of publishing online the department was yet  to comment.