It has been a difficult 7 days for businesses, since the start of the 21-day nationwide lockdown.  Shops, that are not listed as essential services had to close their doors,  with some uncertain if they were going to be able to reopen again. Small business owners, Delene Wilson,  Fiona Juan and Sershan Nydoo spoke to the Ladysmith Herald about their anxiety and concerns. “For me it means no work no pay, so this shutdown has been very trying for me. I have to still pay rent for our other salon in Winterton,” said Delene Wilson, who is a nail technician. Delene’s financial woes started before the lockdown, when a local businessman was tested positive for Corvid-19. 
“Many of my clients cancelled their appointments in fear of being infected, in fear that they had come in contact with the businessman,” said Delene. 
Some of Delene’s clients feared that they might carry the virus into the nail salon.  “So they just said they would rather be safe than sorry and cancelled,” Delene added. Delene contacted her bank, to request a payment holiday on her bond and vehicle finance. “I have not received any answers, yet, so we will see what happens.” Delene added that she has been incredibly blessed by a few clients. “Many of my clients have offered to pay for their next appointments in advance, and that has helped tremendously”. Delene said that it is hard to keep oneself motivated. “My family has been incredibly supportive and encouragement is always at hand, day or night”, she said. She did however, confess that spending the whole day in her pj’s is a dream come true. Delene’s advice to those at home, is to play board games, groom your pets, de-clutter your home and spend time in your faith. Fiona Juan and Sershan Nydoo, have also seen huge losses this month. They are an essential service, but can see maybe one or two customers per day. “The lock down is a pain, but despite the tears, stress and anxiety we have found comfort in our families,” said Fiona.  
“We have had to find other means of income,” said Sershan Nydoo.  Nydoo said, he is extremely supportive of the President’s call for the lock down and supports most of his decisions made thus far. “The rest we will have to just leave it to the universe and have hope that it will all work out,” he concluded. SMME funding for businesses in distress has been made available by governmentto assist those business owners unable to survive the lockdo