Following the report of a Chatsworth male who has tested positive for Covid-19, nurses at RK Khan hospital have refused to stay silent about their dissatisfaction towards allegedly being told that the hospital does not have stock of the proper personal protective equipment (PPE). The nurses, who meet weekly during their duty briefs, aired their concerns amongst each other today, 6 April, in an attempt to find a possible solution to this problem . According to these public servants, they have allegedly tried to liaise with hospital management through their superior, who was unavailable for comment, and were now tired of hearing that the hospital did not have enough PPE for the nurses. A nurse at the hospital, whose identity is known to Tabloid Newspapers, was especially worried about the rise in patients who tested positive for tuberculosis. “We are only using the blue masks given to us by the hospital and it’s not enough to protect us especially since we are seeing many TB patients frequently now as well,” said the nurse.  “We also do not wish to make our patients feel uncomfortable by standing far away from them while we examine them. They may feel like they have already tested positive,” she added. Another nurse, said that nurses are akin to ‘the white blood cells of a hospital.’  “We are at the forefront of the healthcare system, and we see to patients before the doctors do. More than our safety, we have to think of theirs. If we don’t have the proper PPE, we could possibly become carriers of the virus and go on to infect our patients,” she said.According to the hospital management, they are aware of the worldwide shortage of PPE including the N95 masks; however, they confirm that the hospital has an appropriate supply of PPE for their staff.It is however alleged that the nursing staff are only issued one blue medical mask per day which they have to sign for daily as their PPE. “The Department of Health Guidelines as to which PPE is to be given to which category of staff is strictly being adhered to at present. Staff is issued their PPE as per the guidelines,” said RK Khan Hospital’s PRO, Mbali Mthalane.