A broad and inclusive coalition of churches, Christian associations, ecumenical networks and ministers’ fraternal are seeking to use their extensive footprint across KwaZulu-Natal to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic, the related lockdown and its impact via the KZN Covid-19 Church Response. In a letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa, delivered this weekend by the KwaZulu-Natal Christian Council, they applauded his decisive leadership: “In particular we affirm the generous and commendable example set by you, your cabinet and the premiers, of pledging a third of your salary to the Solidarity Fund. This is a powerful gesture of inestimable symbolic value. We gladly notify you that the churches across the KwaZulu-Natal province are pledging R1 million to the relief emergency in our province.” “South Africa is in lockdown until the end of April in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This dramatic and yet critical step is having a very significant impact on the country, especially on the food security of a majority of the people,” said Cardinal Wilfrid Napier, Chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Church Leaders Group and Chairperson of the KZN Inter-Religious Council. As a part of their joint-strategy, churches will be rolling out cash vouchers across the 11 districts through their fundraising efforts. Other elements of their provincial plan include communications and awareness, pastoral care and advocacy around social and economic vulnerability. This is all supported by an inter-denominal space for prayer and reflections on the life-affirming theology of care in the face of the pandemic. They have partnered with the South African Council of Churches and Intellimali, a well-established SMS voucher service provider to develop a solution that sends vouchers via SMS to beneficiaries identified by local community leaders and church networks. These vouchers can be used at any Shoprite, Pick n’ Pay, Usave, Checkers or Boxer store to purchase food and other essential items. With operational costs funded by a designated grant and Intellimali supplying the system at cost, this solution is extremely cost effective with 99 percent of funds getting directly to the beneficiary. Church leaders stated that they further supported the president’s call for those who have resources to make a similar contribution urgently. “Now is the time for sacrifice, for self-sacrificing generosity and most importantly for corporate responsibility, care and solidarity,” said the leaders. More information can be obtained from the KZN Covid-19 Church Response website: http://www.covid19response.co.za/