The Phoenix family whose one member was diagnosed with Coronavirus (COVID-19)has spoken out in an exclusive interview with The Phoenix Tabloid on Sunday12 April. The family spoke about how they have been holding up since receiving the COVID-19 test results this past Wednesday. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, the wife who cannot be named, said that it hasn’t been easy for her family since her husband was diagnosed with Coronavirus. “We are still coming to terms with everything that has happened this past week. It’s been a very difficult task to register this whole situation as our lives have changed so drastically within a short space of time. However, we do immensely appreciate the amazing support we’ve received from members of the community who have stood united with us during this trying time.” ”The children and I were tested yesterday and we await our resultshoping that we are fine. Our health is fine, we are healthy and haven’t shown any symptoms. We are getting all the necessary help and have adhered to everything as instructed by the Department of Health. My main focus right now is making sure that my family is 100 percent healthy. We are taking immune system boosters so we can get through this together and hope to encourage others out there who have been directly affected by this virus. If every community supports each other the same way that ours have, everyone will get through this,” she said. READ MORE : A Covid-19 case has been confirmed in Ward 49, Phoenix The husband, who is currently self isolating at their home informed The Phoenix Tabloid that he was doing well. He sounded perfectly healthy over the phone and stated that he had shown no symptoms when the tests were done. “I showed no symptoms of the virus but it was obviously picked up from my body. I have since taken all the necessary precautions to protect my family but I feel good, I’m taking immune boosters and doing just fine,” he said. He added, “This is a world wide epidemic and the virus does not discriminate against anyone – I never imagined myself going down this road but I’m here now and couldn’t be more grateful for the support and encouragement I’ve received from my family. All I ask is for each and everyone of us to be united and supporting to those that need the support while trying to fight this.” Spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health Ntokozo Maphisa said, “Both the Premier of KZN Mr Sihle Zikalala, and KZN Health MEC Ms Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu have adopted a stance that the names of patients, hospitals, and areas affected by Coronavirus – the so-called “hotspots” – will not be divulged. This is to prevent the stigmatisation of patients, families, health facilities (unless there are extenuating circumstances), and communities. People who are affected by COVID – 19 need our solidarity, care and support – not discrimination. Government is focusing on demystifying the Novel Coronavirus, so as to create awareness about the virus, what its symptoms are, as well as what those who display them need to do. Also important is for people to heed the instructions of the lockdown and stay at home. We call on the media to support these efforts.”