President Cyril Ramaphosa placed Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, on two months special leave, with one month being unpaid this week, after a photo circulated on social media in which Abrahams was seen having lunch with former ANC MP, Mduduzi Manana and family. This contravened the Covid-19 lockdown regulations and the minister made a public apology to the nation. Tabloid Newspapers chatted to readers to find out if Ndabeni-Abraham’s apology and special leave is sufficient or should she hand herself to the police as some people on social media are requesting? Thobani Dlamini   The president didn’t respond this aggressively to Fikile, Nathi and Lindiwe when they violated regulations. This, however, leaves us with a big question as to why they were not charged for violating the lockdown regulations. But I honestly believe that she should be arrested like any other citizen who has been arrested for violating lockdown regulations. Phumelele NxumaloShe should hand herself over to the police, no exceptions. The law should not only take its course to some individuals with the exception of others. I also ﬁnd it ironic that the same president who claimed to not have the power to take drastic actions towards ministers, (when he was asked to take action against Pravin), was now able to take action against Abrahams. Nkosenhle Sibisi I think the special leave is enough but it shouldn’t be paid at all.  This, however, must be a lesson for other government oﬃcials not to do as they please. We’re all South Africans and should respect the president’s call to stay at home and not do luncheon with our friends. We all want to go out with friends but we can’t because we understand that we’re in the middle of a crisis. Matt Tsolo Arrest her. We also want to go have lunch with our friends and favourites, but we can’t. She is beautiful, but not special. Yoliswa Ngwenya I definitely think that our Communication minister should have adhered to the regulations, if not she must be charged the same way as normal citizens. This entire week we have heard Minister Bheki Cele putting his foot down towards people who are not abiding to the regulations and who are putting other people’s lives at risks. We have seen that people have been arrested, even on social media people who write fake news about the virus are being charged. So why should she be treated differently. For her being put on just a special leave is not enough. Nosipho GumedeThere are so many ministers who have broken the lockdown regulations such as Fikile Mbalula just to name a few, who held two meetings at a taxi rank with over a hundred people. She is not the only one who is breaking the regulations. The fact that she has been suspended with one month being an unpaid leave, to me that is punishment enough. She must not hand herself to the police.