President Cyril Ramaphosa said that the government is going to evaluate the 21-day lockdown effect on the nation.  The president was speaking at his visit to the National Water Command Centre at Rand Water in Johannesburg, yesterday (Tuesday, 7 April). He was joined by Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu. Ramaphosa said that the effect of the lockdown is still being assessed. “Many of our people throughout our country are abiding by the lockdown and its regulations.  However, there are pockets of people who are still getting on with their lives as though there is no coronavirus, “  added Ramaphosa.  He said that the coronavirus pandemic is a serious disease, affecting people throughout the world. “We need to take it seriously and abide by the regulations published by government. We will be able to make a proper, ‘scientific assessment’ in a few days’ time, to see how well this lockdown is serving the people of our country,” he said. “If we had not locked down South Africa, I can tell you without any shadow of a doubt the infection rate in South Africa would have been a lot higher than what we have. The lockdown has been an important measure to save lives, to contain the spread of the pandemic,” said Ramphosa. Ramaphosa explained that locking down the country was the correct decision as many other countries are following suit as they are seeing the effectiveness of locking down. He said that government will come up with a plan to save the country’s economy from being affected negatively. “Of course, it impacts on the economy negatively, but it is important to save lives, because lives are important and the lives of our people matter,” said Ramaphosa. He said that the economy will take a real knock but the Government will come up with strategies on how to re-engineer the economy to move forward. When asked about the challenges experienced, Ramaphosa explained that the most important challenge was to get everybody to abide by the lockdown regulations. “ The biggest challenge is to stop the spread of the coronavirus, to flatten the curve, not to spike and to prevent the deaths of those who could succumb to coronavirus, ” he said.  He further explained that the other key challenges are making sure the economy of the country can sustain the lives of South Africans beyond coronavirus.  He explained that government will be coming up with strategies and plans on how to address the challenges beyond coronavirus.  “But for now we are focusing on stopping the spread of the disease, flattening the curve and stopping the deaths,” said Ramaphosa.