Despite having to panic on the increasing number of Covid-19 infections and having to rush to shops during lockdown, Durban residents have been keeping themselves busy. Some have made daily routines while others have been munching away in front of their televisions catching up on their favourite TV series and movies. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, some of the residents have shared their innovative ways to keep busy: Lucille Botes said that she and her family of four, have been planting seeds and pips from everything that they eat.  “Since day one of lockdown my family and I have been pot planting popcorn seeds, garlic, chilly pips and some fruits. All the plants are growing really fast. It’s better to plant food than to worry about when lockdown will end,” said Botes. She said that they even made savoury pancakes with mealie meal. As part of entertainment Botes said her daughter has been keeping them occupied with her ‘spider-lady’ moves climbing up walls to keep fit. Steven Jones said he has been spending time in his home studio and also working around the house doing some gardening and maintenance. “My wife and I also have a yoga and meditation session just to keep active,” said Jones. Always so busy, Kim Griffith Jones who is a mother of two teens, said she is working from home and the girls also have online school work to do. “From the morning we do our work and at 5pm we break it off with a fun session. My girls are very creative and have been coming up with crazy ideas for entertainment. We have our own themed discos and it is so much fun. Every night we have something to look forward to,” said Griffith Jones. Radio personality, Maya Jagjivan, said he is currently working from home and has not been doing much for entertainment. Jagjivan said,” It’s great not to have to rush to work and stress about traffic in the road. I have more time to simply relax and spend time with family.” Kerry Bissett said she loves baking and she been spending a lot of time as Mama Baker. I have made koeksisters, malva pudding and loads more… I am however still working at the same time.  I’m still responding to emails, answering work calls and sending out invoices,” said Bissett