A factory, that is listed on the essential services list in Pieters Industrials has re-opened after it was ordered to close its doors last week for not complying with health and safety regulations. On 3 April, the Uthukela District Mayor Cllr AS Mazibuko, Alfred Duma Deputy Mayor Cllr T Hadebe, SAPS, and Municipal Health officials led by GPP Mazibuko visited the same factory after being alerted by its management that things were now in order. The team was informed by the factory management that they have complied with the requirements and safety standards as required. It was established that in an effort to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic the management and workers decided that workers would sleep at the factory for the duration of the lockdown period. The Municipal Health Department officials visited the factory and found that the sleeping arrangements were not sufficient, ablution facilities were not hygienic and things were completely disorganised. Equipment like masks and sanitizers were not provided to the workers. The management was advised to look at these concerns and get the house in order. They have since bought 300 masks for 39 people. They also purchased washable masks. The management has made transport arrangements for the workers so that they will be able to come to work and go back home thereafter. About six taxis will be transporting these workers daily.
Upon inspection it was found that toilet facilities were now in a hygienic condition. “Safety precautions are of paramount importance. One must understand that some people do take chances to get things done in their own way,” said Mayor Mazibuko. The Mayor then explained to the workers the reason for the visit. Cllr T Hadebe also reiterated the Mayor’s sentiment saying that they were pleased with how things were now organised. The factory operations have resumed as from today as all the requirements and hygiene standards have been met. Officials confirmed that it will be revisited to check compliance.