Tongaat and Verulam residents have voiced their views on the extension of the nationwide coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown. This comes after President Cyril Ramaphosa extended the lockdown on 9 April from 16 April to 30 April, due to the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the country and worldwide. Residents who spoke to Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid on Monday 13 April, expressed their mixed emotions on the lockdown extension. Trisha Pulthee: She said: “I acknowledge that it was a tough decision to put our financial status aside and choose the lives of South Africans. Personally, I’m concerned about my kids with school term being interrupted, however as parents we need to become more involved and assist our kids with accessing their curriculum via the internet and communicating with teachers to ensure our kids are not wasting this time.” Avinash Mahubir:He said: “The lockdown extension has badly affected my life. I can’t move around and we are unable to carry out our charity drives. This is very bad as we practice no work no pay at work,” he said. Daniel Alick:He said: “The lock down extension has a positive and negative role in my life. The positive role is that we are at home safe guarding ourselves taking precautions and trying to reduce the spread of the virus. On the other side, our economy is decreasing drastically and people are concerned about the looming retrenchments,” he said. Alick expressed concern over the effect the extended lockdown has on the education system in the country. “I urge residents to stay a home and obey the regulations in order to fight the virus,” he added. Happy Ngwane:She believes that the authorities can do more to avoid the spread of the pandemic.“The government really needs to enforce the regulations. It is no use you have roadblocks in one community area for an hour in the mornings and allow people to move freely throughout the day. The question is, are we really doing everything to curb this virus?” she asked. She advised that strict measures need to be enforced on the ground level or else the virus will get out of control.