After President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address on 9 April, announcing the extension of the lockdown, we chatted to members of the public to hear how they are taking the news. Some said that they wish some of the regulations could be lifted, whilst some said the decision to extend is for the benefit of the people and we need to all adhere to the regulations and stay home to be safe. Natalie Amanda La CaveI totally respect our president and the decisions he had to make. It must have been a very difficult one for him. I thank God for him. He has done his best for our country and he is also feeling the stress for us too. I salute our President. Our country has to obey his rules. It’s hard for everyone and for those who are alone or have no food or family.  We should think of them. It’s out of our control and we just need to keep close to God, pray and all stand together. This period gives me more time to reflect on God and be with my beautiful family and cook and do the things we take for granted. I love to exercise and now I have these extra few weeks to get fitter and stronger. We have to appreciate the things in life. Love one another and be kind. Paul Roxburgh It’s not unexpected. Compared to other countries, we’re doing ok so far. So rough it out for two more weeks. I feel they need to relax the ban on cigarettes and alcohol. For those who smoke it’s hard to stop and their tempers get frayed. That and being cooped up all day every day, with family can lead to domestic violence. I know how hard it is to give up. More and more liquor outlets will be broken into if alcohol sales aren’t reinstated for a bit. Jen Botha  I must admit I had tears in my eyes as our family business may not survive this. But the President has my total respect at this difficult time. Many people in other countries are dying and he is taking the bold and brave decision to help save lives. Beverly Ross Smokers are going to start rioting soon. Unbanning cigarette sales would bring in much needed revenue. I think the extension is a good thing in the long run. We need to get on top of this virus and I think our numbers are still going to climb a lot. Its very hard on small businesses but South Africans are tough and we can face this together, stronger. Heather Rorick It’s a very wise decision that the president has made. It is not going to be easy for a lot of people as money has run out, there is no income coming in at the end of this month. But rather an extension of the lockdown than more people losing their lives. It’s also a worry that crime will increase. But I think communities need to stand together now by reporting crime, and by reporting those breaking the lockdown rules. Also I plead to people to not feed the homeless, rather direct them to the correct facilities dealing with the homeless. Residents feeding the homeless just encourages more to flood into our area.