The Inkosi  Langalibalele Local Municipality (Estcourt) in partnership with Uthukela District Municipality, Dept of Health, Bhekuzulu Self-Sufficient Project and Al Imdaad Foundation rolled out the Covid-19 intervention programme at the Municipal Yard, recently. This follows the establishment of the Local Command Team as per Premier Sihle Zikalala’s attempt to reduce the spread of the Covid-19. Simultaneously, a donation of 30 water tanks was sponsored by the Al Imdaad Foundation The OSS Local Task Team Chairperson Mr Nkabinde outlined the purpose of the gathering and cited some of the challenges in the process. He said it was important that vulnerable people are provided with the necessities in order to enable them to combat this pandemic. The Al Imdaad Foundation as represented by Abed Karrim said the foundation was happy to donate about 30 water tanks to the cause that will assist in the fight against the pandemic. Fezile Dlamini from Bhekuzulu Self-Sufficient Project donated sanitizers, soaps and detergents. She said it was important to work together with the government to contain the spread of the virus. Inkosi Langalibalele municipality, Mayor  JM Mbele said they will go out in full force to make sure that businesses, traditional leadership and the community comply with the regulations as set by government. “Communities must take extra precautions and lead a healthy lifestyle during this challenging period,” said Mbhele. District Mayor Cllr AS Mazibuko said the district is committed to complying with the regulations as set out. He emphasised the importance of social distancing amongst the people. “I wish to thank the Department of Health for the great work they’re doing in terms of managing the situation and the SAPS for law enforcement during this trying period,” said Mazibuko. He then requested municipalities to check and work with businesses with regards to the issues of compliance. He also emphasised on the issue of education which will assist to raise awareness about the pandemic. Mazibuko alluded to the issue of security. He said they’ll develop a roster to make sure these tanks are filled with water timeously.  He said that the tanks will greatly assist in the turnaround time of water provision.