Chatsworth’s award winning General Practitioner (GP), 92-year-old Doctor Perisamy Neelapithambaran Govender has not deterred from his focus to fulfill his duties and serve the community during the Covid-19 lockdown. Despite being at risk of contracting the coronavirus because of his age, Doctor Govender who practices in Merebank said that only death will separate him from fulfilling his duties as “medicine is his calling.” Doctor Govender has been practicing in Merebank for the past 55 years. He has assured the community that he will be there for his patients with chronic ailments, which includes diabetics, asthmatics and the frail. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers at his practice, he encouraged residents not to panic during the coronavirus pandemic. He said, “The internet has intruded into our lives and we cannot do anything about it. A lot of fake news is going around and is causing residents to panic. I would like to encourage stay home with families, to play games and do fun activities to get their mind off things. If people take precautions by using a mask, sanitising their hands with alcohol based sanitiser regularly and keeping a social distance of at least one meter, this will prevent them from getting in contact with the virus.” Apart from conducting his job to the best of his ability, Doctor Govender enjoys spending time with his loving family, collecting model cars and African antiques. He loves gardening, and spends loads of time in his beautiful colorful garden at his home in Silverglen. Doctor Govender has also written three books, Girrmit Tales in 2008, Legends of the Tide- The Seine-netters in 2010 and Behind the Stethoscope in 2015. He plans on publishing his fourth book soon. Doctor Govender has been married for 58 years to his beautiful wife, Vasagee. They have four children and three grandchildren. He has many other achievements which he obtained throughout the years, one of it being the title as president of the South African Medical Association. He was also instrumental in the opening of Life Chatsmed Gardens Hospital, a private hospital in Chatsworth. Doctor Govender was the founder of Durban South Doctors Guild and was terminated after being identified as an ‘agitator’ by the apartheid government. He has been active in many community projects which included a medical camp for the xenophobia victims in Westcliff for 30 days, at his own cost in 2015. His future plans include passing his skills to the upcoming generation and training impoverished children in the medical field. Doctor Govender further added, “During this scourge, the community is urged to obey the rules of the government to stay at home and only leave their houses if it is absolutely necessary. If residents follow rules, we can get past this phase and lead a normal life once again.” Doctor Govender vows to serve the community wholeheartedly until his last breath.