The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA), Nomusa Dube-Ncube commended law enforcement officers who arrested a suspect involved in the manufacturing, distribution and selling of counterfeit liquor at Illovu Township, South of Durban. MEC Dube-Ncube released a media statement commending stakeholders in the liquor industry who have expressed their commitments to adhering to the lockdown regulations. She said: “I appreciate the fact that they understand the regulations are aimed at containing the spread of the virus. It is comforting to know that they have joined hands with government in intensifying efforts aimed at ensuring the full recovery of our economy post Covid-19.” MEC Dube-Ncube added: “We acknowledge that the liquor industry remains critical in ensuring socio-economic development. Many other sectors of our economy such as tourism, hospitality and entertainment rely heavily on the liquor industry. A thriving liquor industry is therefore in the interest of this province. During this period and beyond, we undertake to continue to work with stakeholders to strengthen the control and regulation of liquor through the KZN Liquor Act.  The 50-year old man was arrested for manufacturing and selling counterfeit alcohol. The suspect (Cas no 125/04/2020) was caught red handed refilling Smirnoff 1818 bottles during an intensive operation that resulted in successful recovery of the following Diageo products: 196 x 750ml Smirnoff 1818 (empty bottles), 100 Litres Ethanol, 1 x black bag full of Smirnoff 1818 closures, 5 x 750ml Smirnoff 1818 – refilled bottles.The suspect was charged with contravening the Disaster Management Act – 2020, manufacturing and selling counterfeit alcohol and selling counterfeit liquor during lockdown.MEC Dube-Ncube said: “Through the KZN Liquor Board Authority, we will undertake awareness campaigns in order to educate communities about the Act and lockdown regulations. We have joined forces with law enforcement agencies and industry role players to clamp down on those flouting the regulations and any law of the country.” She said that South Africa is founded on the supremacy of the Constitution and the rule of law. Our laws should apply to all, not some. Businesses too must meet their legal obligation.  Obtaining a business license and paying your taxes is part of business compliance.  Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, the spokesperson for EDTEA, Ndabezinhle Sibiya, said that people are aware of the lockdown regulations, but some choose to deliberately disregard them. “We will be educating business owners about the regulations utilising social media, district and community leaders so the message can reach all people,” he said. The EDTEA is committed to sustaining a collaborative approach to ensure that compliance of the relevant laws outlined below. Failure by anyone to adhere to the laws will result in the prosecution without fear or favour:-       •   Disaster Management Act     •   The Business Act of 1991     •   Consumer Protection Act     •   Labour Relations Act     •   National Health Act     •   Occupational and Safety Act     •   National Environmental Act     •   The Bank Act, Income Tax Act and Vat Tax Act