The Covid-19 Temporary Employer-Employee Relief Scheme (COVID19 TERS) has been set up by Government to assist employees affected by the Covid-19 National Disaster and lockdown. Employees can access this fund through the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF). UIF Commissioner, Teboho Maruping, says the UIF is ready to assist affected workers and companies. He said that as a caring organisation, UIF will continue monitoring the situation and assist workers and companies to limit the negative financial impact of the Covid -19 on workers, business and the economy. This benefit differs from the usual UIF benefits. An employee does not need to have enough “credits” with the fund to claim the money.  All workers at approved companies get paid. “I would like to caution workers and companies that submitting a fraudulent claim is a criminal act that will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” said Maruping. Who can apply for this benefit? •   An employer that had to close its operations, or a part of its operations, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, for a 3 (three) months or lesser period and affected employees shall qualify for a Covid-19 benefit. •   For a business to qualify, it is required to have been registered with the UIF before the crisis started. •   The employee needs to be a regular UIF contributor to benefit from this fund. The application process •   This benefit is applied for by the employer. •   The employer has to apply for the employee. •   The employer sends an email to a dedicated mailbox: Covid19ters@labour.gov.za.  •   The employer will get an automatic reply outlining all steps to be followed. •   The employer will have to prove that his or her business has suffered a severe knock from the lockdown. •   If the application is approved, the UIF will pay out money per worker for up to three months. •   The employer must then pay over the benefit to the employees concerned within two days. •   The COVID19TERS Benefit is de-linked from the other UIF Benefits and other processes, however applications are subjected to normal verification and validation processes of the Fund. The employer must submit documents •   Letter of Authority, on an official company letterhead granting permission to an individual specified to lodge a claim on behalf of the company •   MOA (completion of the agreement between UIF, Bargaining Council and Employer) •   Prescribed template that will require critical information from the employer •   Evidence/payroll as proof of last three months employee(s) salary(ies) •   Confirmation of bank account details in the form of certified latest bank statement •   All documents submitted will be subject to verification The amount of the benefit • Payments from the benefit will depend on the employee’s salary. • The maximum payment from the fund will be R6 730 monthly • The minimum amount of the benefit is R3500 regardless of the minimum wage. If an employee’s income falls below R3500, the employee will be paid a replacement income equal to that amount. • The employee’s salary amount is a maximum of R17712 per month and employees will be paid a percentage of their salary according to the income replacement rate sliding scale (38%-60%). • If a company can still afford to pay employees a part of their salaries, the benefit money will “top up” these payments, but employees can’t earn more than 100% of their current salaries. • Employers may supplement these benefits, but employees may not get their full salary plus the benefit. The maximum that an employee may accordingly receive (from the UIF and their employer) is 100% of her/ his salary. Who will pay the benefit?•   Employees will not be paid by the UIF directly, but by their employer or the applicable bargaining council. The only exception to this is where an employer employs fewer than 10 employees.•   The UIF will first verify the supporting documents submitted by the employer and, within 10 business days of the employer submitting all of the required documents and information, will deposit the funds into the employer’s business account.•   Employers must pay their employees the benefit within two days of receiving payment from the UIF. •   If the employer has already paid their employees part or the entire benefit amount, the employer can recover those amounts from the funds deposited by the UIF and pay the balance – if applicable – to the employees within two days. Contact Details UIF has developed a dedicated number for COVID19TERS Benefit enquiries during the lockdown period. The contact number is: 012 337 1997 Workers, companies and stakeholders are urged to follow @DeptofLabour and @UIFbenefits on Twitter and visit www.labour.gov.za for regular updates. Please refer to the Frequently Asked Questions if you need any further clarity.