As South Africa enters its second phase of lockdown, with the lockdown extended until the end of April, community based organisations are going to have to make contingency plans to keep relief aid flowing as the impact of the novel cornovirus is felt even more. With the Muslim fasting month of Ramadaan starting on 23 April the demand will deepen. Relief aid for fasting Muslims in the form of food hampers ordinarily reaches its peak during this time of the year. In Overport, the NMJ Welfare committee has been busy providing Covid-19 relief food and hygiene packs with their volunteers getting little or no rest at all. Heading the drive is the Welfare committee’s Ahmed Osman. He said that the organisation has been inundated with requests by people who need food as much of the population lives hand-to-mouth. Until now about 8000 food hampers have been distributed to areas as far as Pietermaritzburg and Ladysmith. As the lockdown extends into Ramadaan, Osman says that within the next few days they will gather information to ensure that as many of the areas will be covered with the necessary hampers. Osman has made an earnest appeal for for more items to be donated. If you would like to assist by donating towards the food hampers for the community, contact Ahmed Osman on +27 83 786 7036 or WhatsApp +27 78 1786 132 In another development a new organisation called the Muslim Relief Alliance KwaZulu-Natal has been formalised to address the relief aid needs in the province. Former eThekwini Municipality deputy mayor and ward 31 PR councillor Fawzia Peer, Overport businessman Nazir Malek and Imtiaz Syed of eThekwini Outreach were among those who spearheaded the formation of the fledgling body. Peer said that such a coalition was long overdue and it was something that she had proposed and wanted to see come to fruition when she was still in office as deputy mayor. She emphasised that the coalition of the various relief organisations will ensure that relief work was not duplicated. Some of the organisation’s making up the alliance includes the NMJ Welfare, eThekwini Outreach, the Al Imdaad Foundation, Jamiatul Ulema KZN, Feed the Poor and the Caring  Sisters Network.