KwaZulu-Zatal (KZN) Premier Sihle Zikalela has announced that the entire province of KZN will move to level 4 with the rest of the country on Friday, 1 May as part of  governments Risk Adjustment Strategy to re-open the economy and to contain the coronavirus (Covid-19). This, after the Premier had said on Sunday, 26 April, at a media briefing, that eThekwini was the epicenter of the coronavirus and unless there was a “drastic change” in the number of cases coming out of the city, eThekwini will remain under strict lockdown regulations of level 5 and may not move to level 4 when the rest of the country moves on 1 May. The Premier confirmed today, Wednesday 29 April, that the eThekwini economy will open up on Friday with the rest of the country, however stricter measures will be enforced to avoid the escalation of infection. “We want to see some practical measures put in place to avoid the continued increase of escalation of infection,” said Zikalela. The premier said that he wants to see that the transport system is in place, to ensure that people who are travelling will be safe, especially those who go to work, and that the regulations around social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitizing will be observed. “We want companies to be ready when they open. For screening of staff and to provide protective equipment, where necessary, so that people are not exposed. We are not saying that we will not open up the economy on 1 May, we will open up the economy but under strict conditions,” said Zikalela. Zikalela said that from today (Wednesday), the provincial government will be interacting with the business community and big companies. “We will be talking to CEOs on how ready they are for the opening of the economy.  Each company, when they open, need to check staff temperatures and screen them. Companies need to provide masks, glove and hand sanitisers. We will be inspecting that,” said Zikalela. He said that the KZN Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs will be working hard on the downgrade from level 5 to level 4 in KZN. The Premier was speaking at the eThekwini Disaster Management Centre during the handover of 10 mobile testing vehicles for Covid-19.that was donated by the Concerned Citizens Covid-19 team in partnership with Nedbank, Spar and Chroma Capital to the KZN Provincial Government, to fight Covid-19. These vehicles which will be conducting 24 000 tests per month comes fully equipped  with staffing such as drivers, nurses and administrators  staff and is the first of its kind in the Province.