An online lockdown version of Splashy Fen will take place this weekend starting Thursday 9 April till Saturday 11 April.  Lockdown Live is a 3-day virtual Splashy Fen Music Festival, which fans can watch online and enjoy from the comfort of their homes. Over the course of the 3 days fans can enjoy a carefully curated selection of amazing live music, streamed from each musician’s home or private studio – artists like Goldfish, Veranda Panda, Goodluck, Donovan Copley from Hot Water, Gary Nixon from the Kickstands, Steve Umculo, Freddy-L … and more will be performing live to all Splashy Fen fans. But of course there is more than just LIVE music,  find your zen with a 9 am yoga class on Friday or get the blood pumping with a fitness coach on Thursday and Saturday. Learn  healthy plant-based recipes, entertain the kiddies with an arts & craft session on Friday at 10 am, or be entertained with live comedy from East Coast Radio’s Darren Maule, Neil Green and Rory Petzer. Fans can also sit back and watch a series of festival and music tributes that take a look behind the scenes, and some proudly South African content that is sure to bring a happy tear to your eye. Stu Berry will go on air with a number of guests; talking about Splashy Fen, why music matters and other entertaining topics. Jane Linley Thomas kicks off these chats on Thursday at 11 am. Following that will be Splashy Fen’s creative director, Fuzzy van Rensburg who will talk about building the Splashy Fen site; Jeremy Loops, Liam Magner from Veranda Panda, Australian performers from 2019 Juzzie Smith and The Pierce Brothers, as well as the 2020 headline act Coleman Hell. The online festival is FREE to anyone and everyone, as a thank you to all the fans who have been exceptionally understanding and supportive of the festival’s date change. Fans can tune in via the following online link, or catch it live on the Splashy Fen website or social media pages: https://youtu.be/N2kktTQjSxU Fans are challenged to pitch their tents in their garden, lounge, bar, bedroom… wherever they can, to enjoy a hint of what would have been at Splashy Fen in Underberg. Fans can snap a picture or video and post it to Splashy Fen’s social media pages using the hashtag: #splashytentchallenge to stand a chance to win their share of R10 000 in prizes.