President Cyril Ramaphosa has placed Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, on special leave for two months – one month of which will be unpaid. According to the statement issued today (Wednesday, 8 April) by the presidency, the minister was summoned by the president on Tuesday. This, after a picture was circulated on social media in which Abrahams visited a friend and former ANC MP, Mduduzi Manana for a lunch with family contravening lockdown regulations. Manana said that Ndabeni-Abraham’s stopped at his house after performing “critical and essential services” for the purposes of the lockdown  and was invited to join them for a meal. The president expressed his disapproval of Ndabeni-Abraham’s actions saying that her actions undermined the requirement that all citizens should stay at home during the lockdown. “The nationwide lockdown calls for absolute compliance on the part of all South Africans. Members of the national executive carry a special responsibility in setting an example to South Africans, who are making great sacrifices,” said Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa accepted the minister’s apology for the violation “but was unmoved by mitigating factors she tendered.” He directed that she deliver a public apology to the nation. In a live address, Ndabeni-Abrahams apologised to President Cyril Ramaphosa, the National Command Centre and to all South Africans for her actions which she says she regrets. She said: “I am deeply sorry for my actions and I hope the president and South Africans find it in your hearts to forgive me. The president has put me on special leave and I undertake to abide by the conditions of the leave.” Ramaphosa was unmoved and said: “None of the national executives should undermine our national effort to save lives in this very serious situation. I am satisfied that Ndabeni-Abrahams appreciates the seriousness of what she has done and that no one is above the law,” added Ramaphosa. Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu will act in Ndabeni-Abraham’s position during the special leave.