Following observations as well as proactive enforcements, eThekwini Municipality conducted site inspections of spaza shops and rehabilitation centres within Phoenix, and surrounding areas last week. The integrated effort was multi- disciplinary and involved various departments such as the Municipalities Development Planning Environment and Management Unit – Enforcement officials, Economic Development Cluster – Business Licensing, Metro Police and the SAPS. Abdul Domingo, Senior Manager Enforcement and Prosecution, from the Development Planning Environment and Management Unit, who led the inspections said: “In terms of the Disaster Management Act and the lockdown regulations, illegal and unauthorized activities were being practiced by various business entities, spaza shops and rehabilitation centres. In some cases the operation and structures were also illegal.” He explained that the focus of the operation is multi-sectoral with a priority focus on the challenge of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) and the lockdown. The operation included monitoring of legal activities to ensure the necessary permits were issued for owners to do business and that hygiene conditions like social distancing, masks and sanitizers were maintained in the spaza shops and rehabilitation centres, to curb the spread of Covid-19. He said: “Depending on the seriousness of the offence, if businesses are found not to be in compliance with the regulations then various actions would follow e.g prosecution, evacuation or arrest.”He further explained the challenge that the municipality is having with registered traders being given a permit by CIPC to trade as an essential service. “However, they still do not comply with the municipality regulations. They have not gone through the process of approving the building or the container they are trading in is not approved by the Town Planning Department, to operate for business. Even if it is a tuck shop selling perishables e.g Dairy products, they will need a permit from the business licensing department. These tuck shops need business licenses to operate or they are regarded as illegal, “ he said. Domingo explained that the municipality will be liaising with CIPC to address the issuing of permits.The tuck shop owners and the rehabilitation centres were taken by surprise by the operation as members proceeded to view the premises. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Padmini Ramsamy of Sonas Tuckshop in Phoenix said she sells essential goods. She said that the ward councillor had given her “permission” for the spaza shop to operate. She proceeded to show her “permit from the ward councillor”. Ramsamy explained that she is a widow and has been operating the spaza shop since her husband passed away last year. She said that the officials who had visited her today instructed her to close the spaza shop as she was operating illegally without a licence. She said that she was not aware that she was operating illegally and that she would contact the Town Planning officials as well as the councillor for further guidance.  A community member who was present said that the spaza shop should not be closed: “How would the poor communities survive the lockdown especially those who do not work? We understand that the Covid-19 lockdown is very serious and we are obeying the rules of the lockdown but what do we do for food. The shop that is close to us give us credit, if it closes down how do we get food? ” said the community member. Mrs Amina the owner of Sharkeys Tuckshop in Phoenix said that the officials were very respectful towards her and advised her about having sanitisers on hand for customers to use. She said that all her documents and permits were in order. At the rehabilitation centres visited, it was alleged that many illegal immigrants were living in the makeshift “rehabilitation centre” with poor hygiene conditions and lack of social distancing measures in place.  Domingo said: “For awareness and enforcement, follow up operations will be done as a matter of priority. The officials conducting the inspection will be given proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to do thorough inspections, with the necessary precautions.”  He added: “We have witnessed the impact of Covid-19 including deaths, so I urge residents to stay at home and stay safe. This is a developing story and updates will be given once the follow up inspections are done.