South Africa has scaled up the country’s capacity to test citizens for Covid-19  with the rolling out of 67 mobile sampling and testing units nationwide to all districts and metropolitan municipalities.     Health Minister Zweli Mkhize, officially launched and unveiled the National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS) Mobile Laboratory and inspected the inside of the sampling and testing mobile units at the NHLS head office in Johannesburg on Wednesday evening (1 April ). Mkhize said that the vehicles must go to all the areas that have been identified as hotspots and those who are symptomatic must be tested first. Mkhize said that many people need to get tested to get a true picture of the spread of the virus in the country. On Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the roll out of the large-scale screening, testing, tracing and a medical management programme. The president announced that around 10 000 field workers will be visiting homes in villages, towns and cities to screen residents for Covid-19 symptoms. He said that people with symptoms will be referred to local clinics or mobile clinics for testing. People who are infected with coronavirus, but who have no or moderate symptoms will remain in isolation at home or at a facility provided by government and those with severe symptoms will be transferred to hospitals. Mkhize said that those people who might have mild symptoms in poorer areas may not seek assistance immediately and this posed a risk. He said now officials will seek people to test rather than wait for them to present themselves at a clinic for testing. “Our testing criteria is reactive and restrictive. This means we don’t have a true picture. Although we are talking about 45 000 tests, this is too low, given the size of the population. We need to engage all community leaders. Spread the message to stay at home and the importance of hygiene must be made more emphatically,” Mkhize said. He said that next month, the flu season will start which meant more people will flood the hospitals and clinics. According to the Minister, 44 202 people have been tested, largely in private laboratories and just over 6000 have been performed in at public facilities. He ascribed this reduction in the rate of increase to the closing of borders, enforcing a quarantine on inbound travellers and the lockdown has slowed internal transmission by reducing the spread during large gatherings and overcrowded transport routes, eg trains, buses and taxis. He emphasised that people must stay at home and wash hands in ensuring good hygiene and further encouraged those who are on chronic medication to ensure they take their medicine. “This disease affects us all, black, white, rich or poor. We need to be united as a nation and focused when addressing this issue. Each person’s action count,” Mkhize added. As at 01 April, the number of confirmed cases of COVID19 in South Africa is 1380.