The Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, has gazetted further amendments to the Regulations on the Covid-19 lockdown. The movement pertaining to funerals and limitations is being clarified in the amended lockdown regulations. She said that this was to reinforce the national response to the coronavirus (Covid-19) and to curtail the rapid spread of the virus while maintaining the integrity of the lockdown. The amendments will allow certain individuals to move between provinces and, metropolitan and district areas for purposes of transporting a body for burial purposes.The amendment also limits the individuals who are permitted to travel to funerals.Only the following persons, who live outside a province or metropolitan and district areas, may attend a funeral: The current prohibition of 50 persons attending a funeral still applies. The holding of night vigils is still prohibited. The regulation now outlines a process for persons who wish to travel between provinces, or between metropolitan and district areas to attend a burial or cremation to obtain a permit.The permit may be obtained from a Magistrate who is the head of office or a station commander of a police station or a person designated by him or her. In order to obtain a permit, a Magistrate who is the head of office or a station commander of a police station or a person designated by him or her must be provided with a death certificate or a certified copy of a death certificate; According to the regulations, a permit holder may stay at a hotel, lodge or guest house for the duration of the funeral or cremation. The permit must be presented to the owner or manager of the hotel, lodge or guest house.The person issued with the permit cannot be in the vicinity for more than 48 hours and cannot stay with a relative or friend. Only two family members can accompany the vehicle transporting the body / remains to the cremations or burial. A briefing will be held to address the amendments today.