The National School of Government (NSG) has unveiled more online courses for public servants to complete while observing the national lockdown at home to prevent the spread of the corona virus. The Minister for the Public Service and Administration Senzo Mchunu on Tuesday, 31 March urged public servants to enrol for the compulsory Nyukela Pre-Senior Management Service course during this period as part of building an ethical, capable and developmental public service. Mchunu said all who wish to join the senior management service should complete this course. “The NSG has in addition unveiled more online courses that are ready from 1 April, for self-registration and enrolment,” said the MEC.  The courses, which are available at no cost to the officials, are the following; · Getting started with eLearning – (This prepares online learners for eLearning) · Writing for Government  · Ethics in the Public Service (compulsory)  · Ethics for Internal Auditors · Policy and Procedure on Incapacity Leave and Ill-Health Retirement (PILIR) · Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) course · Introduction to Strategic Planning and Management · Introduction to Leading Change · Introduction to Financial Management and Budgeting. MEC Mchunu said in order peruse all the E-Learning courses officials should visit the NSG website https://www.thensg.gov.za/. Click on “Open eLearning courses” under the eLearning tab on the NSG website. Follow the on-screen instructions to register an online profile (if they have not done so yet). Enrol in the available eLearning course/s of their choice. The NSG trains about 4000 public servants annually at its premises in Sunnyside, Pretoria and 40 000 in external venues in other cities nationwide. The NSG suspended face-to-face training last month in light of the national lockdown and will enhance online training during this period. Enquiries may be directed to any of the following:  nitasha.ramparsad@thensg.gov.za craig.jansen@thensg.gov.za  louise.lepan@thensg.gov.za  fran.greyling@thensg.gov.za guillaume.kruger@thensg.gov.za Or phone Ms Dikeledi Mokgokolo on +27 82 888 2355 and Dr Fran Greyling on +27 (82) 454-4665.