The MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube continues to make unannounced visits and raids to various essential stores as part of the department’s efforts to protect consumers against food price hikes during the lockdown. This week, the Department also stepped up its efforts to protect the economy against fraudsters and international criminal syndicates who are operating in KwaZulu-Natal. The MEC visited the Phoenix area where members found violations of lockdown regulations at a local store, on Thursday, 23 April. “Regrettably, the owners of the retail shop have been served previously with contravention notices by inspectors from the Department of Employment and Labour. We will be taking tough actions against the owners to send a strong message that nobody is above the law,” said Dube-Ncube.Over the past few days inspectors from the department’s Consumer Protection Unit and Business Regulations – working with the Department of Labour Employment, Crime Intelligence, Durban Metro Police, Immigration Unit of Home Affairs and SAPS arrested more than 66 undocumented foreign nationals for a number of contraventions including carrying firearms without a license and violating Visa regulations.In a statement, Dube-Ncube said counterfeit goods and R100 000 in cash was confiscated during a raid in the Durban Central Business District on Wednesday, 22 April. ’The counterfeit products that were seized include fake medication such as Grandpa, condoms and cigarettes. “Clearly there is a very professional and sophisticated big racket using what could appear as a legitimate business. Police alone cannot be expected to win this battle. As reported by the South African Revenue Services recently, these syndicates exploit differential taxes of highly-taxed goods such as cigarettes, alcohol and petroleum,” said Dube-Ncube. She added: “They sometimes choose not to declare their goods, bribe officials or transport their goods through illegal and unmonitored routes. The syndicates are also involved in fraudulent transactions involving under-declarations of imported goods. They are known to double-invoice for the purpose of using undervalued invoices for declarations. KZN’s economy is vulnerable as we have the busiest ports and are located in the eastern seaboard of our country. We also share borders with SADC – Mozambique, Botswana and Swaziland. While we push for economic integration through free trade, it is unfortunate that the international criminal networks are also planning to sustain their illegal businesses which are crippling our economy. Reports suggests that the criminal groups have gained unlimited access to various trans-national networks using sophisticated technology. There are lucrative criminal enterprises operating in Africa, Europe and Asia who have been, for many years trading in endangered species such as rhino horns, ivory, abalone, copper, precious wood, precious stones and precious metals. We want to put this to an end for the sake of the people of this province and our economy.” The MEC said that the country’s fight to ensure that it achieved quality healthcare for all was being compromised by the smuggling of counterfeit medicines through its borders. She added that this was one of the biggest threats facing the province and the country as a whole. “Organized syndicates are supplying unsuspecting consumers with counterfeit, expired and non-regulated drugs. The syndicates run unregistered clinics and pharmacies and are also involved in exports and imports. Access to quality health care and essential medicines is needed to reduce disease and death, and enhance quality of life. Medicines are only beneficial when they are safe, of high quality, and properly distributed by qualified health professionals. “Although government in SA and many governments in the SADC region have made certain drugs available free of charge, these are stolen and sold at exorbitant prices on the open market or in neighboring countries with different pricing policies,” said Dube-Ncube. Criminals have also flooded major cities across the province and the country with fake cosmetics disguised as popular brands, including skin-care products, nail polish, make-up and hair products. The MEC explained: “These products which have negative health effects are manufactured in backyards and sold at cheap prices. The music recording industry, the movie industry and the whole entertainment sector have also been severely affected by counterfeit and cross border crime. Pirated digital DVD and CDs are sold by street vendors and small shop owners. There is a highly organized syndicate which is involved in this racket. A typical network would include producers of the DVDs and CDs in South Africa and smugglers who transport the goods from South Africa to other countries. There are facilitators at the border posts and suppliers and marketers in destined countries.” The MEC said that post Covid-19, everything will be done to protect the economy. “We will ensure that our inspectors and law enforcement agencies are trained to identify counterfeit goods.  More resources will be allocated to ensure that that there is a greater awareness-raising among law enforcement agencies because even with good laws, there is very little that can be achieved in the absence of proper information.‘’ said Dube-Ncube.