Another Netcare hospital, Netcare Kingsway Hospital in Amanzimtoti, has closed its doors amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Members of the public and patients are furious and gravely concerned after the hospital displayed a sign from yesterday (Tuesday) stating the hospital is closed for all patients and will not be admitting new patients due to COVID-19. The sign further encouraged members of the public to seek medical assistance at hospitals in Isipingo or Durban. Today (Wednesday) Netcare  confirmed that its KZN regional team and the hospital management at Netcare Kingsway Hospital have responded swiftly to managing the COVID-19 exposure at the hospital, and have temporarily closed the hospital for new admissions. According to Craig Murphy, regional director of Netcare, the origin of the exposure has been traced to a patient who was admitted to hospital via the emergency department on 4 April 2020 with a suspected stroke. “Upon admission, the patient was risk assessed and screened for COVID-19 symptoms and exposure as per the Netcare protocol, which is aligned to the NICD guidelines. The patient did not exhibit any signs of the virus and on questioning his family, no symptoms or exposure risks were reported. During his hospitalisation, the patient was visited by his general practitioner on the evening of 7 April who mentioned to the treating specialist that he had recently treated him for flu like symptom on 1 April,” Murphy said. “The treating specialist requested a COVID-19 test as a precautionary measure even though the patient was still asymptomatic. At the same time, the patient was placed in isolation as a person under investigation (PUI). The test results of the patient came back on 8 April confirming that the patient had a COVID-19 infection,” added Murphy. “We embarked on an extensive programme of contact tracing so as to identify all nurses, doctors, paramedics, support staff and contract service providers in the hospital who may have had contact with the patient in question. Healthcare and other workers who have been exposed to the patient were asked to home-quarantine and self-monitor. Most of the identified contacts have been tested for COVID-19, the remainder of the exposed persons will be tested in the next few days. All potentially exposed patients have also been tested,” he said. “All of these individuals – those working in the hospital as well as patients – who have undergone COVID-19 laboratory testing are regarded as persons under investigation (PUIs) and have been placed in isolation to contain the possible spread of the virus. All of our staff, as well as our patients, have been offered counselling and this support will be ongoing,” said Murphy. He added, “The hospital management also promptly communicated the exposure to the doctors practising at the hospital and requested that they cancel consultations and conduct telemedicine or telephonic consultations where possible, or defer their consultations to a later date, in order to restrict access to the hospital. Murphy said the hospital’s radiology department has also been closed. “Netcare has employed the services of two independent infectious disease specialists and epidemiologists to assist in investigating this incident at Netcare Kingsway Hospital. A systematic deep cleaning and decontamination process was started immediately, including the deployment of an ultraviolet disinfecting robot which has proved highly effective in destroying viruses, bacteria and fungal spores in healthcare facilities. This process is expected to continue over the next days,” Murphy said. He added, “We understand that these precautionary measures will cause concern and inconvenience to the community, especially those with family members or friends being cared for in the hospital, as well as our staff members, doctors and other persons working at our hospital and their families. However, we believe these measures are absolutely necessary to safeguard all patients and persons working at Netcare Kingsway Hospital. The management team are contacting the family members of patients who have been admitted to Kingsway to explain the situation to them.” Murphy declined to comment on the number of positive COVID patients at the hospital and stated that the National Department of Health is the  authority on official COVID-19 statistics. He said the hospital is working closely with the KZN Department of Health with regard to the COVID-19 situation at the hospital. In media reports, the provincial secretary of the National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), Ayanda Zulu, confirmed that the trauma unit at Netcare Kingsway Hospital had been closed on Tuesday after a patient and staff tested positive. This is a developing story.