A week into the lockdown and with the rise in confirmed cases of Covid-19 in South Africa now at 1505 today, 4 April, many believe that the rise in numbers have been slowing down as compared to other severely affected countries, worldwide. Since the start of the lockdown, South Africa’s positive Covid-19 cases climbed to 1462 on 02 April showing an increase of positive cases. As the announcement was made by Health Minister on 02 April, Dr Zweli Mkhize, he also added that this may be the calm before the storm. Professor Thumbi Ndung’u, head of the HIV Pathogenisis Programme at the University of KwaZulu-Natal as well as Biomedical Research and Interventions, Virology and Immunology, believes that the lockdown has already affected the country positively in an attempt to flatten the curve. “There certainly seems to be an effect already. However, we need a sustained effort in social distancing in one form or another, even after the lockdown is over,” said Ndung’u, who is also a member of the African Health Research Institute. While most South Africans have been fairly responsible and understand the seriousness of the situation, Ndung’u considers the factor of lower class and poverty stricken communities that find it difficult to comply with the lockdown regulation. “Socioeconomic conditions of a large population in this country make it difficult to fully adhere to government recommendations. For example, some people simply have to go to work to put food on the table, some have to use public means of transport or have had to go to crowded spaces to receive their social grant payment.  This makes it difficult to fully enforce social distancing,” he said. Ndung’u sees the deployment of community health care workers conducting screenings as a proactive move by the government, which are laudable and likely to reduce the spread of infection, however, will require non-trivial logistical coordination and resources. “We are in the beginning of an epidemic in South Africa.  We have an opportunity to flatten the curve, and it is commendable that our government has recognized that and acted accordingly. It is difficult for everyone but we are seeing a tremendous government response and people coming together for the common good,” said the Professor. Ndung’u adds that the only way for South Africans to fully benefit from this lockdown period is to just stay at home.