The United States government has committed additional funds to support South Africa’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, bringing its total commitment to approximately $2,770,000.  Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Robert Mearkle, of the US Embassy in South Africa said that previously, the United States government donated $970,000, including the first $500,000 announced on 11 March, to the Covid-19 response in the country. He said: ” Thursday’s (16 April) announcement provides an additional $1.8 million in funding from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)’s Emergency Reserve Fund. This funding will support the South African government’s critical needs, including surveillance rapid response, case management, and risk communication.”  Mearkle also mentioned that the funds will also support a comprehensive effort by the United States government to assist the South Africans during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is providing technical assistance to South Africa’s National Department of Health (NDoH) and National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD), focused on containing the spread of this virus and mitigating its impact,” he said. He added that these efforts include work by public health experts to assist their partners in developing guidelines for risk communication, identification, isolation, testing, and contact tracing for Persons Under Investigation (PUI) for Covid-19. Mearkle revealed that U.S. CDC is also developing a virus shedding protocol to estimate disease burden, risk factors, and transmission dynamics, which will help inform public health protocols to stop transmission of the disease and save lives. He said that the US CDC has deployed staff to the NDoH and NICD to support data entry activities and support at the provincial level.  Mearkle said: “US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFARs) efforts in the development of lab and clinic systems, modeling and surveillance, and health worker training is providing critical support to South Africa’s Covid-19 response. As South Africa responds to this pandemic, more than 5,000 PEPFAR-supported Community Healthcare Workers (CHWs) will integrate door-to-door Covid-19 screening and HIV adherence activities to allow for an immediate and coordinated response.”       Through PEPFAR, the United States has invested more than 80 billion rand over the course of 17-year partnership with South Africa. He said that this investment, coupled with their partners’ dedication, has created the world’s largest HIV response program, which helps to ensure all South Africans live longer, healthier lives. “PEPFAR’s long-term efforts in the development of lab and clinic systems, modeling and surveillance, and health worker training is proving critical to ensuring South Africa’s rapid Covid-19 response,” said Mearkle.