The Community Policing Forums (CPFs) in Verulam and Tongaat, have suspended all their activities to comply with measures put in place by government to reduce the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19). Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers on Friday, 3 April, Duncan Dube, Verulam CPF chairperson, said that the lockdown seems to be the only sensible measure to prevent the spread of the pandemic. He said: “This virus is upon us all. Government is doing everything in its power to deal with the situation. We call upon communities to comply with restrictions placed on us.” Dube emphasised that there was a need to exercise discipline during this challenging time. “Inconvenience aside, we have suspended all our activities and will comply with regulations. We support the lockdown and encourage the testing to be done in the community. Let us all unite and we will emerge victorious,” he said. Nazir Sadack, Tongaat CPF chairperson, reiterated that they will obey the rules of the lockdown as they were declared as non-essential. “We are really disappointed that we can’t be out there doing service for our community as we are in partnership with the SAPS to fight crime. I feel the concerns in terms of our risks, however, CPF can be of service especially during the government grants payouts to monitor social distancing,” he said. Sadack expressed that they will abide by the rule that they should stay at home to reduce the number of people getting infected by the virus. Amrit Sukdeo, Verulam CPF Youth Desk, said that the lockdown was necessary to flatten the curve of the spread of the virus. “I cannot deny that the lockdown is affecting our work, but it’s for the betterment of our country. We urge the youth to stay indoors and follow the instructions given by our president and to also comply with instructions given by SAPS officials,” he said. Sukdeo appealed to the residents to refrain from spreading false information about the virus. He added: “I call upon all residents to verify the information before passing it on.”