During President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address to the nation on Monday, 30 March, he announced that 10 000 Community Health Care Workers will be deployed across the country to conduct door-to-door screenings in South Africa’s most vulnerable communities. Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize, said in media release, dated 31 March, that it should be emphasized that they will only be conducting screenings and not tests. He added that the field workers will not conduct any tests but will refer any persons suspected of having the coronavirus to the nearest clinic or hospital. “We are exploring the use of rapid antibody tests and Gene Xpert tests in future when we have to process high numbers. The Ministerial Advisory Committee and the South African Health Products Authority (SAHPA) are working hard to investigate all options and come to a consensus,” said Mkhize. A total of 5400 field workers were mobilised in a dry run on Tuesday, 31 March, at Alexandra by the Gauteng Department of Health. This pilot operation was set to do 10 households per hour. Areas such as Diepsloot and Khayelitsha are target communities to be screened. The Department of Health aims to extend this operation to other high density areas by Friday, 3 April. Mkhize announced that mobile testing units will be rolled out across the country and will be launched in the Free State on 2 April. “We also wish to reassure South Africans that the field workers, frontline workers and all workers coming into contact with Covid-19 positive patients and other infectious diseases will be provided with adequate personal protective equipment and no worker will be fielded without the necessary protection,” said the minister. Although there is a global crisis of PPE shortage, the minister confirmed that they are hard at work securing the availability of PPE’S in this time of need.  Dr Mkhize said: “Looking at the trend we are seeing of the day to day new infections we are cautiously optimistic that we may not see the numbers rising as high as we had initially projected. “ We should, however, bear in mind that we are approaching winter which could change the dynamics entirely. It is clear from looking at other successful countries that we, as South Africa, can make a real impact and flatten the curve if we continue to observe the regulations that have been set out by government. Therefore, I would like to encourage South African to continue to stay at home, observe good hygienic practice and work together with government- this way we have a real chance of containing the spread of Covid-19,” said Mkhize