On Friday 10 April 2020, a blessed day to those celebrating Good Friday and those celebrating the weekly Jummah, prayer, an idea was born by the doctors of Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital (AAK Hospital). “The lockdown has been incredibly difficult and lots of people are really struggling. Reality is, many people are way less well off than we are and we have more than we need. This is the time for giving, sharing…for generosity,” was the initial message shared amongst the AAK Doctor group. The idea was then born to raise funds perhaps for groceries or other essentials, and most importantly – to challenge other private hospital doctors to the same. 
Given that the AAK Hospital is an independent, private young facility of only 3 years this month, the response was phenomenal with over R353 001 donated in just a few days. The AAK doctors have elected Gift of the Givers and Caring Sisters Network as beneficiaries of the funds raised. Durban based Caring Sisters Network has successfully distributed food hampers throughout the lockdown thus far. “We have decided on supporting the Caring Sisters Network to assist us with distribution of food hampers to areas within the vicinity of the hospital. It is important to look after the communities closest to us, and Yasiera Suliman and her team at CSN have done a remarkable job thus far in doing just that. It is best to work with the experts in any field and CSN fits this profile” said representative of the AAK Doctor group, Dr Leon Y Perumal, of Perumal and Partners Radiologists. “Gift of the Givers have numerous national projects on the go during this disaster and we felt it apt to support this NGO during this time. If anyone can recognise a need and action delivery to the people out there it is definitely Dr Imtiaz Sooliman and his team at Gift of the Givers,” said Perumal. “Perumal and Partners Radiology have participated in this challenge with a donation of R50 000. As new kids on the block in the world of private radiology practice, we challenge the bigger practices out there,” concluded Perumal. “We are exceptionally proud of our team of doctors here at the AAK Hospital. Their compassion, empathy and generosity truly displays values of the AAK, “said Ebrahim Asmal, Hospital Manager.