Fry’s Food in Westmead, KwaZulu-Natal has closed their factory after a manager at their factory tested positive for the Coronavirus (Covid-19).The company issued a statement today, Thursday, 16 April confirming that their manager had tested positive for Covid-19 last week. According to the company, only one employee had tested positive for Covid-19 and “he is not involved with food production”. Caroline Garnett, Managing Director of Fry Group Foods said that they have been working with the Department of Health to screen and where necessary, to test their production staff. “Those employees who were in direct contact with the said employee and those who are awaiting the results of their tests have been quarantined,” she said. Garnett also said that the entire facility has been disinfected by an independent contracted cleaning company and that they are working closely with the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) to ensure that necessary processes have been followed. She added that the temporary closure of the facility is to ensure that staff are safe and that they will be revisiting their Covid-19 risk assessment to ensure they have addressed all associated risks. “ We would like to reassure you that Fry’s takes the matter of food safety very seriously and has always, even before the onset of the pandemic, followed stringent food hygiene procedures throughout our facility as part of our high levels of quality control. “ said Garnett. She further said that their food safety procedures include, amongst others, all production staff showering before entry into the factory, the daily issuing of freshly washed uniforms to production staff, a stringent hand washing procedure, sanitizing of hands and surfaces throughout the production shift, as well as compulsory wearing of face masks, hair nets and beard snoods where applicable. All machines are disinfected every four hours and once a week the entire facility is disinfected. The company claimed that they have also instituted additional controls since the pandemic such as an infrared thermometer at the entrance to the facility to identify those with temperatures, a Covid-19 questionnaire for those entering and social distancing rules. Garnett said that the management team is working alongside the NICD to assure the production staff that the facility is safe to presume production to supply their customers again. She apologized for disruptions in supply and said that the company is confident that they will be up and running soon.  The company will inform everyone when the factory re-opens.