The Comrades Marathon Association (CMA) has welcomed the official postponement of the ultimate human race by Athletics South Africa (ASA), with a new date to be confirmed at a later stage. The ASA has announced a further postponement of all athletics events in South Africa, due to the global Covid-19 pandemic. The CMA, which has been banned from issuing statements following their reluctance to postpone the 14 June race, had been waiting on the ASA to confirm whether the 90km down run was to go ahead or not. Aleck Skhosana, president of ASA, said: “The Comrades Marathon is postponed from 14 June to a suitable date that will be determined between ASA, KZN Athletics and CSA as soon as conditions around the management of the virus allow us to under the guidance of the government.” Cheryl Winn, CMA chairperson, said that they welcomed the announcement by ASA, saying that their position is that there is no priority greater than the health, safety and welfare of runners, volunteers, supporters, stakeholders and the lives of fellow South Africans. “Therefore, any decision on the eventual fate of the 2020 Comrades Marathon will be taken in conjunction with ASA and KZN Athletics,” Winn said. To date, Comrades had reached their entry limit of 27 500. The race was due to take place on 14 June, from City Hall in Pietermaritzburg to Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. Skhosana also confirmed the postponement of all athletics events was a blanket order in compliance with lockdown regulations. He said: “This will remain in place until is it deemed safe for us to resume by the national government. This affects all fixtures and programmes from 26 March until 30 April. We will review our position when the government issues new measures to be followed. The decision to extend the postponement includes all schools athletics activities including the ASA National Primary Schools T&F Championships scheduled for Pietermaritzburg. The event will remain at the same venue on a new date. Skhosana said: “As a responsible national federation, ASA accepts that the protection of all lives outweighs everything else. We also note that everyone is affected the same way by this law and this include athletes, coaches, event organisers, athletes’ representatives, administrators and communities. As it stands, however, let us prioritise the safety and health of every person, so that we can all return to our athletics programmes once it is considered safe to do so,”