Gift of the Givers, delivered over 150 hampers to deserving families in the Okhahlamba area (Bergville), on 17 April. The grateful recipients  were identified, during the  Covid-19 screening and testing campaign,  held earlier this week. “The teams had contacted councillors and the Okhahlamba Municipality to see how the leaders and the municipality could assist with food hampers. Mayor Mlungisi Ndlangisa called Gifts of the Givers and other individual businesses for assistance,” said public relations officer, Suraya Asmal.  Mayor Ndlangisa and Okhahlamba’s Speaker Sthembiso Zulu with the assistance from other councillors and council officials have been extremely busy in assuring the community receives help. “I’m thankful to the Gift of the Givers, who had responded immediately to my call,” said Mayor Ndlangisa. Gift of the Givers is a South African non-governmental organisation. It is a disaster relief group of African origin. It was established to offer disaster relief and response, together with other humanitarian work. Gift of the Givers’ Escort team leader, Javeed Khan, said that maize miliemeel and rice were part of the relief hampers which was handed over . During their visit to Potshini, Ward 12, Okhahlamba municipal officials had also handed out masks and created awareness about keeping  hands clean at all times. “The community is going hungry and with the lockdown, proverty among the people of Bergville is getting worse  by the day,” said Cllr Micheal Vilakazi, who assisted in the hamper relief program. Despite the calls from the Mayor of Okhahlamba, very few members of the Bergville community could be seen adhering to the social distancing regulations. Very few people were seen wearing masks. At the Bergville taxi rank, a few commuters was adhering to social distances, but others continued like it was just another day in town. “We are pleading with the people of Bergville to please, obey the regulations put in place, it is here to protect you, not to punish you,” added the Mayor. As part of curbing the spread of Covid-19 Okhahlamba Fire Department officials were allocated to several areas within  Bergville, that is usually overcrowded, to be disinfected. “In the afternoon, the taxi rank is also sprayed to help the reduce the spread of the virus,” said Fire Chief Freddie Halgreen . The Ladysmith Herald, interviewed residents on the street about how they felt about the Covid-19. “It does not really worry me, what worries me the most is where is the money going to come from to bring food to the table”. Another shopper said that during the HIV/AIDS, people were dying, they found medication to treat it , “So, Im sure that they will find medication to treat this as well, people die,” said the shopper. Those that had received the relief hampers, were grateful for the relief, but said that if this does continue, then they not sure where their next meal will be coming from.  “Please, community of Bergville, adhere to the regulations and only come into town if you need to collect grants or buy essential goods for the home, stay at home and be safe, so that we can beat the Covid-19,” pleaded the Mayor of Okhahlamba