MEC for CoGTA Sipho Hlomuka visited the Uthukela District Municipality, this morning, 1 April in a continuous effort to raise awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic in Okhahlamba and Alfred Duma municipalities. Mayors, Deputy Mayors, Speakers, Councillors, members of the Uthukela District Command Centre, SAPS, RTI, Public Safety, officials and stakeholders also formed part of the campaign. The main focus of the campaign was on social grants pay points where there’s normally an influx of beneficiaries. This also presented with an opportunity to do community awareness, educating about the importance of social distancing and hygiene standards. The first stop was at Winterton Water Treatment where the MEC was briefed by the Technical Services team about its operations. The entourage then went to visit pay points in Bergville to talk to the patrons about the pandemic and also to determine whether there was compliance with the regulations. After that the team set up a roadblock to distribute leaflets and check whether motorists were also complying. The rainy weather could not dampen the teams spirit. Having finished the work, the team then went to visit the Alfred Duma municipality in Ladysmith. The MEC had anticipated that it might be difficult to manage the situation because of the payment of grants. According to him vendors were allowed to sell food at the pay points so that older people would have something to eat. The MEC also mentioned that the people should be assisted in every way possible. He urged that water must be distributed to the communities to make sure hygiene standards are not compromised. He also said roadblocks will assist to determine who is supposed to come to town. “Any person with a fake permit must be arrested with immediate effect. Law enforcement will be implemented. The reality is that it has not sunk in on our people’s minds that this deadly pandemic exists,” said MEC Hlomuka. The MEC also mentioned that masks should be changed constantly and regulations must be implemented in order to effectively curb the pandemic. The MEC and the team then conducted the walk-about inside a select few supermarket premises, checking out the general hygiene conditions and also talking to the people. The team was satisfied with the cleanliness and arrangements of safety measures found there. They also distributed awareness leaflets to the patrons queuing outside.