Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Trade and Industry Minister, Ebrahim Patel briefed the media on Saturday, 25 April on the classification of industries as part of the risk adjusted strategy on re-opening the economy as announced by President Cyril Ramphosa on 23 April. When South Africa enters Coronavirus (Covid-19) Level 4 on midnight, 1 May, the lockdown remains except for some changes. Key measures in re-opening the economy include enhanced public health and social distancing arrangements at workplaces and public spaces. Industries are encouraged to adopt a work-from-home strategy where possible, and staff who can work remotely must be allowed to do so. Employers must ensure workplace protocols for surveillance, risk assessment and prevention for the spread of infection. Employers are to ensure that: Permitted retail and service operations, personal movement during Level 4 People may travel to perform and acquire services only where such services cannot be provided from the safety of one’s home. All Covid-19 health and safety protocols must be followed including observing social distancing, sanitation and hygiene, and use of appropriate personal protective equipment, like cloth face masks. A. Personal Movement B. Accommodation and food service activities C. Electricity, gas and water supply – permitted D. Wholesale and retail trade, covering stores, spaza shops, eCommerce and informal traders E. Agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing and related services, including the export of agricultural products – permitted F. Manufacturing G. Construction and related services (including tradespeople) H. Information and communication services I. Media and entertainment services J. Financial and business services K. Transport, storage and communication services: L. Health, social and personal services: M. Mining and quarrying: N. Repair and related emergency services: O. Supply Chains: P. Private household’s employment Q. Public administration and state arms Only essential services may operate, including: a) Disaster management services; b) Licensing, permitting and deeds offices; birth and death certificates, replacement identification documents; c) Any other service designated by the Executive Authority, HODs, Heads of Courts, and Heads of Chapter 9 Institutions; d) Essential municipal services; e) Services related to the essential functioning of courts; f) Essential SARS services; g) Police, peace officers, traffic officers, military medical personnel and soldiers, correctional services officials and traffic management services; h) Services rendered by the Executive, Parliament, Provincial Legislature, Local Councils, the Judiciary, traditional leaders and National Office Bearers of Political Parties in Parliament; i) Commissioners of – the South African Human Rights Commission, Gender Commission, the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities, the Public Protector and the Independent Electoral Commission R. Education services