The Democratic Alliance in KwaZulu-Natal today (Wednesday, 8 April) called on the Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu to hasten the process of screening and testing those who have been in contact with Covid-19 patients. This follows after it is alleged that the KZN Health Department only conducted tests on the family of the first Chatsworth man who tested positive for the corona virus, 21 hours after the diagnosis. DA KZN Deputy leader, Mergan Chetty said, “The patient had been in contact with three family members. The patient was taken to RK Khan Hospital after showing symptoms of the virus where the patient’s nephew who accompanied him, informed the staff at the hospital that his uncle was a possible Covid-19 patient. Regardless of this information and the patient’s symptoms, he was admitted to the casualty unit with people who were being treated for other illnesses.” Lives of many, already sick patients were placed at risk. Of the three family members that were in contact with the patient, it is reported that one relative is a diabetic patient whom if infected could be at high risk. Chetty further added: “If the MEC is serious about combating the spread of the Coronavirus, she and her department must urgently reconsider their measures and protocols. Now, more than ever, the department needs to make wise decisions as millions of KZN residents are depending on it. We commend Chatsworth SAPS as when they received the news, they closed the area and ensured that the family was isolated from the community. If we are to beat this virus, we should follow suit by putting in place all the necessary measures.” Chetty is calling for the MEC to fast-track the screening of family members who have been in contact with Covid-19 positive patients.  “The KZN Department should be held responsible for creating unnecessary panic by not doing what they are trusted to do. Relatives of the patient, who has since been transferred to Greys Hospital, are living in fear not knowing whether or not they were infected, ” he said. Chetty said that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic needs us to work hand-in-hand, therefore residents are urged to adhere to the government’s regulations which are going to assist in overcoming the coronavirus pandemic. He urged residents to stay at home.