Despite the fear and uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, the Denis Hurley Centre, which is housing 93 homeless people, has said that there has been a positive side to the lockdown. Sister Cathy Murugan, site manager, said that since the start of the 21-days lockdown, the centre has received calls and messages from families looking to be reunited with lost family members. The spread of the conoravirus has also forced the eThekwini Municipality to work together with NGO’s and religious organisations, in housing 1 402 homeless people at nine sites across the city. Murugan said that this has been a blessing in disguise for some families and the homeless. She said: “In one week of the lockdown I have had four families reach out looking for their loved ones.” The centre has opened its door to elderly and disabled males. “There was a lady who came in looking for her brother, who had registered to stay at the centre, but missed him by just one day. He left and decided to go back to the streets, it was difficult for him to stay with her without access to drugs,” Murugan said. Murugan said it’s been a challenge thus far but they are managing well, with the assistance of the non-government organizations in Durban and the Homeless Task Team under the municipality. The centre is providing shelter, counseling and daily health care for those with chronic illnesses. “They are able to have three meals a day, showers, laundry service, doctors come in four days a week and we rehabilitate those who are looking to get off drugs,” Murugan said. At the start of the lockdown on 26 March, the city had 12 sites housing over 2000 homeless people. With many struggling to live a clean life in quarantine, the numbers have been reduced. Those who remain however are in need of assistance with clothing, toiletries and hygiene products. Murugan said that they were in need of mostly soap and towels. “Clothing, for infants to the elderly, food and reading materials would be greatly appreciated,” she said. The Denis Hurley Centre is situated at 2 Cathedral Road in Durban Central and their contact number is 031 301 2240