The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education is looking into adopting a “boarding school approach” for pupils in Grade 12, in the event that the lockdown is extended. KZN Premiere Sihle Zikalala said the Provincial Executive Council (PEC) met on Wednesday morning, 8 April, to discuss the recovery process post-lockdown and the way forward should the 21-days be extended. Zikalala said the council received a report from the department on the various options to be explored to mitigate against the impact Covid-19 on the education sector. He said: “The proactive plan from the MEC for Education in KZN explores options in the event of the lifting of the lockdown period or a possible extension of a lockdown period. The plan explores a possibility of adopting a potential “boarding school approach” for those pupils and teachers doing Grade 12 and various programmes for grades below.” The detailed plan which was presented to the PEC has yet to be discussed with national government, stakeholders such as parents, unions and school governing bodies (SGBs). Zikalala said it was a precaution and that the department has been given the green light by the PEC, to seek advice on the matter. “We are aware that a lot of scientific and medical assessment is being done by national government and we will hear from the president in due course regarding the national lockdown situation. We must emphasise that it is a holistic proposal with all risks analysed and mitigated. We must also emphasise that this is a scenario planning, subject to the buy-in of national government and stakeholders,” Zikalala said. More than 500 000 matric pupils across South Africa are expected to sit their mid-year exams from 4 May until 11 June, however, with schools closed the department has been pushing online learning. Kwazi Mshengu, KZN Education MEC, said: “Pupils must remember that they are not on holiday. Study materials and past exams papers are available online and other social media platforms. Lessons are also available on radio and other platforms.”