Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga, briefed the nation on the reopening of schools, on 30 April. Motshekga said: “As it stands, there is no confirmed decision on when schools will reopen. The final decision will be taken by cabinet.” She said that since 26 March, 50 meetings were held in the sector and the guiding principle was lowering the infection rate, ensuring safety and protecting lives. “At all times during the consultations we have started with the safety of our pupils, teachers and employees. We made safety a priority, “ she said. Motshekga said that wide consultations were held with teachers unions, governing bodies, civil society and other stakeholders. Motshekga said: “ The principle of opening of schools at the right time was accepted, once all the conditions have been met. In order to deal with social distancing they requested the department to use community and town halls, platooning and shifting. The department was also requested to provide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and provide an awareness campaign to parents particularly in rural areas. They also proposed that the phased in reopening to include special schools. “ She said that representations from members of the public were received, who are concerned about the impact of the Covid-19 on schools. “We appreciate all the proposals; it is really helpful, “ said Motshekga. The Council of Education Ministers (CEM) agreed to focus on a catch-up programme, and promote learning and teaching in homes during the lockdown. 
The Department has used 123 radio stations, and 6 different television channels with a total reach of more than 35 million people to bring curriculum lessons to households across the country to pupils. In addition to 13 radio stations of the SABC, which broadcast in all official languages, 110 community radio stations are also involved in carrying daily curriculum content. The Covid-19 Learner Support programme is aimed at limiting the impact of the lockdown to the school calendar. The radio lessons broadcast are providing curriculum support lessons to pupils and online resources were zero-rated platforms. Motshekga said that the May/June Matric rewrite examinations will be postponed and merged with the November examinations. The exams were due to be written by more than 350 000, mainly part-time candidates, from the 04 May and conclude on 26 June. Due to the lockdown, preparations could not be concluded which included the printing and distribution of questions papers, the appointment of invigilators, markers, and getting marking centres ready. A new time-table for the merged examinations will be communicated and it will be the  “biggest matric examination ever seen in the country”.   It is estimated that 1 100 000 candidates, will sit for the end-of-year matric examinations in the merged format, which includes the Amended Senior Certificate and National Senior Certificate. Motshekga urged parents to pay school fees, where required, as these funds are used to pay the salaries of SGB-appointed teachers. Preparations for the reopening of schools Motshekga said: “ We have been advised to adopt a phased approach in the reopening of schools. Uppermost in our planning, is the health and safety of our school communities – particularly pupils and teachers,” She said that Standard Operating Procedures has been drafted, in consultation with the Department of Health providing guidelines on preventing the spread of Covid-19. Not more than 2 pupils sharing desks; no hugging or handshaking; cloth masks to be worn by pupils and teachers, sanitization of classrooms and hands, limit movement of pupils between classes; and no clustering of desks in classrooms.
Buses are to be sanitized, sanitization of hands on entering of the buses.  The distance between pupils in the buses must be managed. Masks must be worn. 
Enrichment programmes, such as sports and assemblies have been cancelled. Motshekga said that 3500 schools have critical water supply challenges with the majority being in KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape, Limpopo and Mpumalanga. The Department of Water and Sanitation will install water tanks and water trucks will deliver portable water. A basic and essential hygiene and sanitation package is being procured which includes cleaning materials, PPE, sanitizers, hand-washing soap, gloves, cloth masks and thermometers. The DBE has developed Guidelines for schools on maintaining hygiene which include infection control, daily duties of cleaners; and use of PPE. Pupils and educators will be screened prior to school commencing, starting with Grades 7 and 12.  Orientation and training will also occur commencing with Grades 7 and 12 and includes parents, educators and non-teaching staff. Special schools will be included in the plans. Proposed school calendar: 4 May 2020: Office-based staff to return to work  11 May 2020: School Management Teams return to work to prepare the schools 18 May 2020: Teachers return to work 1 June 2020 : Grade 12 and 7 pupils return to school Motshekga expressed concern about the vandalism and burglaries of schools in almost all 75 districts. In total 962 schools have been vandalized. Administration blocks and laboratories have been targeted, and ICT equipment and food meant for the school nutrition programme, have been stolen. The Umlazi District in KZN, is the hardest hit, with 41 schools affected. She welcomed the work done by the Police thus far, in arresting the suspects and appealed to the public to work with the Police, to ensure the conviction of the culprits.