Womandla is delighted to announce the call out for Womandla 2, a vibrant collection of women – and now girl’s too – writing collection. The annual writing call out went live on Facebook, with writers and poets of the first edition of the book as well as new writers and poets, excited to have something positive to look forward to during the lockdown. Having launched successfully at the Womandla Raised Fist Awards last year, the first edition of Womandla was a resounding success in providing a powerful platform for women to express their opinions, share their stories and showcase their talents to astound readers with their incredible imagination. Womandla’s 2020 edition invites women and now teenage girls, to submit writing and poetry about journeys from survival to victory. Some of many examples include gender-based violence, the corona virus pandemic, lockdown, unemployment, depression, bullying, or any other challenge to be overcome in life. This year’s stellar team of Womandla published editors include award-winning activist, journalist, Salaamedia producer-presenter, Centre for Fine Arts, Animation and Design (CFAD ) manager, mediation attorney and author-poet, Shabnam Palesa Mohamed; junior marketing manager, entrepreneur and poet, Sha PoeTrix Mponda; chief diagnostic radiographer specialising in computed tomography and author, Lucretia Basson; author, stage poet, recording artist, uKhozi Fm poetry guest and data entry officer, Pumla Indoni Mkhize and award-winning journalist, Lotus FM content creator, blogger and author, Maya Jagjivan Kalicharan. Founder of the platform, Shabnam Palesa Mohamed said: “Womandla’s vision is to strengthen solidarity amongst diverse women and girls by celebrating their voices and talents. Womandla means the power of women, its root being Amandla, meaning power , in isiZulu and isiXhosa. I am blessed to work with incredible co-editors.” “I was published in the first edition of Womandla, last year. Queens have reigned for centuries, but they are not recognised and respected enough. The unenlightened strive to dim our colourful lights. We have to speak out, read and write, to break free,” said Pumla Indonie Mkhize. Those interested in showcasing their talent can submit a piece in one of five different genres: memoir, opinion, empowerment writing, creative short fiction, and poetry. Diary-style writing is also welcome with suggested themes including passion, purpose, pain, joy, and power. English and translated isiZulu submissions are welcome as well as submissions including humour as the lockdown period engulfs the nations. Given the large number of entries last year, this year, only one entry per genre will be accepted, with 800 words maximum for each submission. A 50-word biography must be included in the Microsoft Word document submission. Spelling and grammar must be checked as editing will be moderate. Submissions are to be emailed to WomandlaSA@Gmail.com and only writers and poets of accepted submissions will be contacted after the editorial review process. The deadline for submissions is 2 May 2020, to write about struggle, solidarity, hope and victory. “We encourage those interested to go like the Womandla Facebook page, with its distinctive logo, for updates, including the launch event and to follow the #Womandla2020 #VictimsToVictors #WomandlaForever,” said Mohamed.