The Comrades Marathon Association (CMA) is looking at a possibility of postponing the ultimate human race to no later than October, this year. This comes as the number of fatalities and Covid-19 positive cases continue to increase globally. The CMA, which had refused to cancel or postpone the 14 June event, said that it was becoming increasingly unlikely that the 2020 Comrades Marathon will be staged as planned. Cheryl Winn, CMA chairperson, said that we are living through unprecedented, unpredictable and unimaginably challenging times. Winn posted a message to runners on the Comrades website. The association has been banned from issuing statements by Athletics South Africa (ASA), after their reluctance to postpone the 90km down run, from Pietermaritzburg to Durban. Winn said: “With regard to possible postponement, which would require ASA sanction, the CMA Board is of the view that the race cannot be staged later than 4 October 2020 owing to climatic conditions, failing which the 2020 Comrades Marathon will have to be cancelled.” Winn said the association will give a definite answer as promised on 17 April. “On behalf of the Comrades Marathon Association, I thank you for your patience and apologise for the extent to which uncertainty as to the status of the 2020 Comrades Marathon may have added to your burden of anxiety, over matters far graver than any road race, over the past month,” Winn said. The decision has been compounded by the cancellation of multiple qualifying races like the Two Oceans. A number of athletes have also been affected by the pandemic. “I would like to assure our runners that CMA’s number one priority is to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our runners, staff, volunteers, sponsors, stakeholders, fellow South Africans, and to the best possible extent, the world. To that end we are engaging closely with our national federation. To all Comrades runners, be proud of the training you have already put in prior to the lockdown. It will never go to waste and you will be stronger for it,” Winn said. Comrades had confirmed 27 500 entries for the longest running marathon. Winn said in the event of a postponement a coach will be available to give directions and the issues surrounding qualifying and substitutions will be dealt with. “With regard to the issue of entry fees, we wish to assure Comrades runners that in the event of postponement or unlikely cancellation, an announcement will be made of a policy that is in line with CMA’s commitment to always putting our runners first,” Winn concluded.