All is not well in KwaZulu-Natal and drastic and urgent action must be taken in the fight against Covid-19. The KZN premier Sihle Zikalala sounded these alarm bells at today’s (Sunday, 19 April) media briefing at its Public Works offices in Mayville. The premier was accompanied by the KZN Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu. Zikalala said that from tomorrow (Monday, 20 April) the province will not be the same as state security agencies will be coming down hard on everyone transgressing the lockdown violations. He said that eThekwini was the epicentre of Covid-19 infections as it was the metropolitan with the highest concentration of people. “This is extremely worrying. Too many people are not adhering to the lockdown regulations. When we conduct monitoring and assessment in some parts of the CBD and in suburbs we find that there is a high number of pedestrians and cars. “We wonder if they are venturing out for food or medication. We noticed that the youth especially do not practice social distancing. They stand in groups on streets corners and walk around,” said Zikalala. He said that this violation of the regulations must stop and that communities should stop being in denial and think that they are safe from Covid-19. Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu encouraged the residents of KZN to take decisive action to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. “The virus does not move. It is the people who move the virus. We have to adhere to strict regulations. “Part of our responsibility to flatten the curve is to have a total lockdown and a strict adherence to the regulations of people within the metro. We are calling on everyone within the eThekwini Municipality to adhere to the regulations,” said Simelane-Zulu. KwaZulu-Natal ranks at number three among the provinces with the highest number of infections. As of 17 April the number of people infected with the novel coronavirus in the province was 587, topped by the Western Cape with 717 and Gauteng at number one with a recorded 1018 number of cases. Zikalala said that it was worrying that of the 51 deaths reported in the country, 21 were in KZN. Three of 83 patients admitted to hospital remained in intensive care, and he said that this was worrying. The eThekwini metro experienced the highest number of cases with the most impact. Zikalala said that 54 percent of patients were in self-isolation, 18 percent of patients have recovered and there is a four percent death rate. The infection rate in the provinces districts include Amajuba (8), King Cethswayo (11), Harry Gwala (1), Ilembe (26), Ugu (15), Umgungundlovu (46), Umkhanyakude (21), Umzinyathi (2), Uthukela (19), Zululand (2) and eThekwini with 383. Zikalala  said that of the 21 cases reported in Umkhanyakude from the start of reported Covid-19 cases, most of the people infected were tourists from France. “New cases recorded was a staggering 77 percent increase for the eThekwini district alone. The district has registered the highest death rate since the start and the highest number of contact cases,” he said. Zikalala said that following a meeting on Friday the provincial command team will implement an intensified lockdown. He said that law enforcement will apply the law in its strictest form and that people who should be at home, must stay indoors. “We must be serious about this along with the punishment to keep people adhering to the rules. We are in disaster mode. It is not business as usual,” said the Premier. He warned of intensified roadblocks with all the necessary law enforcement agencies, including the Department of Transport implementing “multi-disciplinary” lockdown rules enforcement. Meanwhile, Zikalala said that mass screening teams will be escorted by safeguard officials into hotspot areas to ensure that screening and testing goes on without any incident. He said that hotspots were areas where there is a high concentration of people who are infected with the coronavirus. “Those areas will be in lockdown in a very localised way where we will ensure that there is no movement at all. We are going to ensure the monitoring of movement in communities and the transport from one district to another. There is going to be no movement from district to district,” said Zikalala.  He said that they noticed a “leakage in the system” where self-isolation was concerned. Zikalala said that people who claimed that they were in self-isolation were going out into the streets. This, he said, will infect other people. Screening and testing in hotspots and other areas will be largely intensified to achieve the ultimate goal to flatten the curve. “We must ensure that we do our part today and ensure that we do not regret it tomorrow,” said Zikalala. To date 95592 people have been screened and 480 have been tested for Covid-19 infection. Zikalala said that 10488 community care givers will be part of teams in the province conducting screening and testing.