In an effort to assist the homeless during the lockdown and have them moved to a place of safety, the eThekwini Municipality made a provision of temporary shelters for homeless people and those living on the streets.
The Municipality identified sites to be used as accommodation and made a provision of 11 temporary shelters that accommodates more than 2000 homeless people A video showing a group of disgruntled homeless people moving through the streets of Durban went viral this week. The video shows the group of homeless people angrily leaving their allocated camp and later altercating with the Metro police on the scene. It was indicated that the homeless were “unhappy” with the accommodation provided to them by eThekwini Municipality for the duration of the 21 day nationwide lockdown. We contacted the eThekwini Municipality for clarity and eThekwini Deputy Mayor, Belinda Scott responded saying that the incident where homeless people were seen walking out of the relief camp at the Jewish hall, was merely a response from a handful of disgruntled homeless individuals. Speaking to the Tabloid Newspapers, Scott said: “The city needed to evacuate the Moses Mabhida site for the most vulnerable of the homeless, so that medical professionals could attend to their immediate health needs.” “The Moses Mabhida area is the most cosy lockdown area, and it is precisely for this reason the City needed the site for the most ill.” According to Scott, the reason was explained to the healthy homeless people who were moved from the Moses Mabhida area to the Jewish hall area where some of them became disgruntled and decided to leave. Scott disputed the living conditions in the Jewish hall being bad. She said: “Every person placed into one of our lockdown areas has been provided with a roof over their head, a mattress, blankets, emergency medical care, three to four wholesome meals a day, onsite security and nursing care.”  
In response to the same incident, Raymond Perrier from the Denis Hurley Centre issued a statement to provide more clarity and to avoid unnecessary misinformation. In the statement, he explained that there is a task team that particularly manages addiction withdrawal and endeavours to find proactive solutions. “They have been assessing the situation in the camps and identifying individuals with particularly strong reactions to withdrawal. Over recent days it has become evident that the best way of supporting people with addictions is to have them together in one space. This way the specialist team of psychiatrists, medial support, counsellors etc can be based at one place to provide maximum ongoing support,” he said.   The group seen in the viral video is said to be the group of people who were unhappy about the place they were moved to. They were vocal about it, and Metro police had to be called on scene to calm the situation. Perrier said that the situation was contained after the Metro Police stayed for a while and calmed the situation. Some stayed in the camp while some walked out. “As of Friday morning, the tent has been sanitized, the area cleaned, and the meals have been served,” he said.  It is reported that those who left Thursday night returned on Friday morning, as meals were served and as they saw that conditions had improved.