South African businesses that are registered through the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission’s (CIPC), and perform essential services during the lockdown period, will be required to have a new certiﬁcate issued for the extended period, which began on Friday, 17 April.The certiﬁcate will be sent via email using the details provided at the time of registration, and was available for download from the BizPortal website as from the 16 April. According to the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition spokesperson, Sidwell Medupe, the full list of registered companies will have received their certiﬁcates by the weekend. Medupe said that the new certiﬁcate will clearly state that it is for the extended lockdown period, beginning on the 17 April, and South African Police Service oﬃcials will be told which certiﬁcates to look out for. “Certiﬁcates issued before 16 April will no longer be valid and must be disposed of. To provide time for businesses to adjust to the new requirements, the new certiﬁcates must be available for display from start of business on Monday, 20 April. The department reminds the public that possession of the CIPC certiﬁcate is still subject to the company fully complying with the applicable lockdown regulations and is a record of the company’s details, and does not in itself constitute the right to continue operating during the period,” he said in a statement. Medupe said that only businesses that provide essential services in terms of the amended lockdown regulations, issued by the Minister for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs may continue their operations during the Covid-19 lockdown.  “The CIPC certiﬁcate is a reference to the legal registration of the company in terms of the Companies Act, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) and a record of registration to the CIPC. It does not give a ﬁrm or individual a right to trade if that company does not fall into an essential service category as deﬁned in the lockdown regulations,” said Medupe. The Department said that the registration portal is only for companies registered in terms of the Companies Act. Other essential service providers, such as healthcare professionals registered with the Health Professions Council of South Africa, sole proprietors (small businesses and spaza shops) who provide essential goods and services, and small-scale farmers will not register through the Bizportal. He said, these businesses will not have a CIPC certiﬁcate, however, they must still comply with the provisions of the lockdown regulations. “Where the CIPC ﬁnds that certiﬁcates have been issued to companies which do not meet the deﬁnitions of an essential service, such certiﬁcate will be revoked, and the company will be referred to the South African Police Services. False declaration by the company is a criminal offence and will result in prosecution, in terms of Lockdown Regulations,” he said. Medupe added that, the regulations for the extended lockdown have also clariﬁed that the transportation of liquor is prohibited, except where alcohol is required for industries producing hand sanitizers, disinfectants, soap, alcohol for industrial use and household cleaning products. To apply for for a certificate you can visit www.bizportal.gov.za