Pupils are urged to set aside dedicated time for school work in light of the extended holiday due to the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown the country is currently experiencing. Chairperson of the Portfolio Commitee on Basic Education Bongiwe Mbinqo-Gigaba has said that the committee was briefed before schools closed regarding the Department of Basic Education’s (DBE’s) precautionary measures and plans to ensure that learning continues during these uncertain times, either through television or digital channels. “As part of the committee’s oversight responsibility, I and other members of parliament have been monitoring resources made available to pupils. I am confident that with the content noted on the DBE’s website and social media platforms, coupled with resources from various social partners, our pupils have sufficient material to keep them busy so that when formal schooling resumes, they have not missed out on much schoolwork or are on par.” Mbinqo-Gigaba urged pupils to make use of the television programmes and all digital platforms that were made available. “I want to further commend schools that have also made resources available and have teachers that communicate with pupils via email or WhatsApp where they might experience challenges. These extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures and thinking outside the box.” She further urged Grade 12 pupils, in particular, to use their time wisely, as they are about two months away from the crucial June examinations. “Every effort should be made to ensure that these pupils do not fall behind. We as a community should unite behind them and assist wherever we can to ensure our Matrics work sufficiently during this time.” Mbinqo-Gigaba said pupils cannot do this by themselves: “This can only happen if we have a concerted effort by all stakeholders –pupils, parents, guardians, teachers and everyone involved – to ensure our pupils stay focused. We should stand together to make this work.” Last month, the committee was briefed that the school calendar will be amended to make up for the lost days of schooling. The June vacation will be shortened by seven days and the September holiday by two days. All school activities will be scaled down, suspended or cancelled. This includes spelling bees, moot court, school athletics, school camps and assemblies. The committee further heard that the situation will be monitored daily and communication will only occur via one channel to avoid confusion. The following are educational sites that learners and parents can access: www.skool.com, www.mathsisfun.com and https://za.ixl.com.