Hundreds of tired, scared and angry people said they were afraid to be out among so many people but they had no choice but to follow the snaking queues because they had no groceries at home. This, after the MEC of Social Development in KwaZulu-Natal, Nonhlanhla Khoza, called on all grant recipients to collect social grants at a time when there are shorter queues at pay points. Khoza said beneficiaries will get their payments and there is no need for all of them to rush to the banks and retails.
“Payments will remain on their accounts for three months. A grant beneficiary can collect at any suitable time to avoid jostling in long queues,” said Khoza. Lilian Dlomo, 42, who always collects her child social grant at a local supermarket, every first day of the month, said that she was afraid to contract the coronavirus disease as she is one of the people at risk due to her epilepsy. “People including myself usually arrive here as early as 5am, by lunch time we are almost at home cooking for our families. But this month things are different. I was number 1 600 on the queue which is something new to me. Not only that, between us there is no space which makes it very difficult since I have no mask or gloves on to protect myself,” said Dlomo. Another beneficiary, Baduduzile Ngcobo, 46, said that she is very disappointed that none of the store officials have come to remind them about the importance of social distancing.
“I’ve been waiting in the queue with my son because I need a bag of rice and mealie meal since those are the basic necessities we need in the month. Since people have been flocking in, shelves have become empty, leaving very little for other shoppers,” said Ngcobo. Shoprite store manager, Mandla Mlambo, said they have demarcated places that show customers how to stand in queues with the help of security guards. 
“We also have limitations on certain products such as sanitisers, toilet paper, and canned foods. However, some customers will send their extended families for more,” he said. Responding to the social distance problem Mlambo said standing one meter apart also known as social distancing is still a problem for some of the customers since they believe “the closer you are to the next person the quicker the queue”.
“But we are not giving up, we keep telling them to keep up with the stipulated gaps. We are also experiencing problems with those that will want to jump the queue claiming that they have lost a family member, which is just a hoax to get served first in the line,” he added. Mlambo has urged the community who are also consumers to abide by the lockdown rules in order to stay safe from the spread of the coronavirus.