With the country on lockdown as a means to curb the spread of Covid-19, many people are struggling to put food on the table. The Khabazela Feeding Scheme in Khabazela Village, Avoca, is calling on businesses and the community to lend a helping hand in keeping hunger at bay. The feeding scheme has been sustaining struggling families in the area by providing meals to children and the frail once a day after school. Since the lockdown, the feeding scheme was closed due to not having a permit to operate, but this week has seen volunteers distributing parcels of food and bread to families throughout Avoca. The parcels were donated by generous sponsors supporting the feeding scheme. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, founder of Khabazela Feeding Scheme Dumile Magaqa said that the closure of the feeding scheme in the past two weeks meant that many people especially children depending on it were left without their source of daily food. “It was really hard for me as people were stopping me on the street asking me for food and sometimes coming to my house to ask me for help. Times are hard as most people survive by hustling and temporary jobs. Now that there is no work for them it is difficult to feed their families. I am happy that we are now back on track and continuing with our work of feeding the community once a day,” Magaqa said. He said that more than 100 people are depending on the feeding scheme. “None of this would have been possible without the assistance of ward councilor Pete Graham who has taken it upon himself to buy gas and other groceries for the kitchen every month. His organization provides sandwiches every Friday for the feeding scheme,” Magaqa said.He said that the councilor has been a great inspiration and support to him and he is always there whenever he needs something. “I am also thankful to my many sponsors who lend their helping hand whenever I ask for assistance,” he said. The initiative initially started after the municipal run soup kitchen in the area was closed and he approached an organisation called Mission Thando for assistance. From then on, the organization has become one of the main sponsors of the feeding scheme. “They were very excited to assist me and they provided me with everything including food and the container that I am currently operating in,” Magaqa added. In terms of safety to prevent the spread of coronavirus during lockdown, he said that there are volunteers who are making sure that people are keeping safe and that they adhere to the regulations and that they are practicing social distancing. He appeals to the community to assist with food donations as well as hand sanitizers. To assist, contact Magaqa on 061 820 1938