Fikile Mbalula opened a fake news case this morning, against well-known celebrity and SA Idols judge Somizi Mhlongo, following a lockdown extension joke implicating the transport minister, on social media. In a video post shared by Somizi’s colleague, Dineo Ranaka, he “joked” about how Mbalula had told him that the lockdown will be extended prior to the official announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on 9 April. The official announcement was made at 8pm and the video of Somizi’s joke posted hours earlier. The joke caused social media uproar and Mbalula’s integrity was called into question, over sharing sensitive information. Despite him denying telling Somizi about the extension of the 21-days lockdown and the Metro FM deejay apologising publicly, at 10am on 10 April Mbalula opened a contravention of lockdown regulations case against Somizi, at the Sandton police station. Mbalula said: “I have noted Mhlongo’s apology however I do not view his utterances as a mere joke, the country is going through a serious disaster management period and any misinformation, irregular or unauthorised information being published is both unlawful and not assisting in our cause to manage public affairs carefully.” He went on to say: “Even though Mr Mhlongo guessed it right in his speculative discussion, he went further to mislead the public about the source of his information which undermines and is preemptive on government and the president over very sensitive information of a national security caliber of which I am very sensitive to and have adhered to in all my time in the executive. I did not discuss the lockdown timeline or extension plans with Mr Mhlongo at all whatsoever and to this end my conscience is clear and I am prepared to attest to this under oath, having served in multiple cabinets.” Mbalula said Mhlongo acted very recklessly and irresponsibly as name dropping has caused enough harm and needed to be nipped in the bud. Somizi apologised and said:” It was a bad joke on my part. I did say to my colleague later that I was joking and that I never spoke to the minister at any point I was just scaring her, again I’m sorry for the bad joke and I apologise to the minister for such a dangerous statement.”