This Ramadaan will most likely be one of the most depressing for thousands of Muslims across South Africa as masjids (mosques) will have to stay closed under the Covid-19 lockdown regulations. With the KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala  announcing stricter implementation of regulations against violations at a media briefing on Sunday, 19 April, there is no indication of any relaxation of regulations  for places of worship anytime soon. The Muslim holy month of Ramadaan is expected to start on either Friday or Saturday, depending on the sighting of the moon, in the middle of one of the worst crises that the world has seen in contemporary times. Coupled with the month is the extended night prayer of “Taraweeh” that usually sees mosques filled to capacity. During the last ten days of the month, many worshippers take to the mosques to observe the days in complete isolation and devotional prayer and meditation to the Creator. For now it looks like none of this is going to happen. Another downside for worshippers is that the atmosphere of the opening, or breaking, of the fast at mosques at the time of sunset will disappear. This time of day brings worshippers together sharing the traditional date, savouries and haleem (a sort of hot broth) in an unprecedented show of spiritual unity which is  not seen during the rest of the year. Said one regular attendee at a local mosque in Overport: “I am not going to the mosque, whether to break fast or to pray Taraweeh. We cannot risk our own life and that of others. It is better to stay at home. I will miss my friends as we usually sit together and share treats when we break our fast.” In a  recent development, in a bid to have mosques opened during Ramadaan, Durban-based attorney AR Kazi wrote to President Cyril Ramaphosa requesting the relaxation of the lockdown regulations “to allow controlled access to mosques during the sacred month of Ramadaan”. Kazi listed 55 institutions,  mosques and senior Muslim theologians across the province that he represents. He stated, among other things, in his correspondence: “It is widely recognised that the coronavirus pandemic demands the implementation of measures to protect and promote the physical health of our citizens. There is however an equally important consideration that demands the preservation and promotion of the holistic development of people, namely the protection and promotion of their spiritual and psychological well-being. “The maintenance and promotion of prayer and related disciplines of worship in environments most conducive thereto is central to that objective. The complete denial of access to mosques and other places of worship, which are considered by the faithful to be sanctuaries of peace, blessing and mercy, is bound to have a deleterious effect on the holistic well-being of people,” wrote Kazi. “It is in the foregoing context that we humbly request the Presidency and the Government of our country to ameliorate the rigor of the lockdown regulations in so far as they indiscriminately impose a blanket prohibition on attendance at mosques and other places of worship. “We are not requesting completely uncontrolled, unrestricted and unfettered access to mosques and other sites of worship. We accept that the requested easing of the prohibition must necessarily be subject to controls and measures that would reasonably address any potential risks associated with the potential spread of the coronavirus infection,” he wrote. Kazi proposed the limitation of a maximum of 50 people in each congregation, not exceeding 25 percent of the capacity of such a facility; multiple congregational prayers; and the imposition of sanitary measures. However, a leading Islamic commentator and scholar of comparative relgion, Mufti Mohammed Coovadia, said that it was inappropriate for masjids to open in the face of a pandemic. He attested that the optional “Taraweeh” prayer was not compulsory. “To request for Taraweeh to be read in the masjid while it is not even open for obligatory prayer is diabolical and nonsensical. “Until the status quo does not improve markedly, we have no choice but to continue as we are. We need to pray for this sickness and harm to be removed from us permanently. Non-obligatory prayer should be best done at home. How can you have social distancing in a masjid?,” he said. Coovadia said that if people were calling for the masjid to be opened, then his view is then that open the masjids for those who wish to pray, but there must be a disclaimer by the relevant committee and that they advise regular congregants to pray at home. One of city’s oldest and most recognisable places of worship, The Jummuah Masjid of Durban, or more popularly known as the Grey Street Mosque, will remain closed until further notice. Trustee AV Mahomed, said that his committee will take a decision at the end of lockdown, if  the lockdown is not extended, for a gradual opening. “We will see what restrictions still apply, and make an informed decision from there.” A Muslim medical expert closely following the spread of the coronavirus, who asked not to be named, said that it was preferable to remain at home or in congregations of four or five within your immediate vicinity. He suggested “small Taraweehs” with the same precautions and with people whom you know. “Use your own prayer mat, two metre spacing, face mask, make ablution at home. Perform shorter Taraweehs where possible. Proper sanitising of the entire area before every prayer including the use of a strong soapy detergent. Anyone over the age of 60, especially with chronic disease, anyone with the slightest cold or anyone who might have been in recent contact with someone who is known to be positive or known to have come back from an overseas trip, should stay at home,” he said. The doctor said that there should be no socialising and the a fasting person should break their fast at home. He said that if masjids were open, to go in and out as quick as possible with no socialising in the car park. “There should be no iftaar (breaking fast) in the masjid. Maintain vigilance as a high priority because South Africa can still be hit with another wave once lockdown restrictions are lifted and people start mixing where the virus can still spread and be transported everywhere,” said the doctor.