With the extension of the lockdown creating a massive hole in the pockets of South Africans as well as the ever-uncertain looming fear of contracting the virus, there is an undoubted need to establish programmes to increase social support. The University of KwaZulu-Natal has recognised this need and have created a UKZN Hardship Fund to protect those members of the university community that come from poor and vulnerable households. This fund is aimed at addressing major issues of food insecurity as well as menstrual hygiene for both students and staff. This response by the university acknowledges that the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to be severe on the most vulnerable within their community. UKZN Vice-Chancellor and Principal, Professor Nana Poku was the first to contribute to the fund by duplicating President Cyril Ramaphosa’s act of selflessness towards the country and pledged a third of his monthly salary towards the fund for the next three months. Poku also calls on all UKZN stakeholders including staff, students, suppliers, service providers, funders, alumni, the donor community, friends of the university and all other loyal stakeholders to contribute to the fund. As part of this initiative, UKZN will also launch a donation drive on all their campuses for staff and students to donate non-perishable goods such as foods, toiletries, sanitary pads and many other items. “We call on all our students, staff and stakeholders to strictly comply with all the lockdown regulations. Stay at home and take the necessary precautionary measures to mitigate against the spread of the disease,” said Poku. The University remains on high alert and its Covid-19 “War Room” and online portal continues to provide regular information and support via the website, www.ukzn.ac.za, including up to the minute updates from the Department of Health, National Institute of Communicable Diseases, World Health Organisation Africa Covid Region Office (WHO AFRO), as well as access to the university’s in-house clinical experts. For more information contact: www.donate.ukzn.ac.za.