A group of homeless women, sit quietly in the sun, with only a small radio to keep them company at the Ladysmith Civic Hall.  The ten women have been sleeping at the Civic Hall, since the start of the lockdown. On the other side of Ladysmith, a group of over 20 men are seen washing their clothing, sharing stories and sitting in the sun. These two groups of people have no other place to go and since the start of the lockdown they have been temporarily housed by the Ladysmith Alfred Duma Municipality. Each of these men and women have been assisted by a social worker, who ensures that they are comfortable and taken care of. The Ladysmith Herald spoke to one of the woman,  Octavia Mdluli, who said that they are safe and since the lockdown, have not left the premises. “If you leave, you are not allowed to come back,” said Octavia, who further explained that they receive three meals a day. Most of the women at the Civic Hall, are unemployed and their usual income comes from begging. ” We really miss our families, but they are far from here and I just hope that they are safe,” said one of the woman. Octavia, spoke on behalf of the women, and told us that they have done the screening process and are just waiting for the lockdown to be done with.  Octavia added that men and women are separated,  as a precaution to keep the virus at bay. “I do miss my boyfriend,” said Octavia. Octavia said that she is not scared of the virus, because she is healthy and strong and with the assistance of the leaders of the country and what they are doing now, she is sure that she will be fine. “I’m going to keep myself strong and have faith, because when I get out of here, I’m going to see my man,” smiled Octavia. The Ladysmith Herald also met a 47 year-old man, from Standerton. While making his way home, he was caught in Ladysmith during the lockdown. “I worked for a company for a very long time, but the company closed down and I lost my job and as they say, the bad luck, just continued going down hill,” added the man, who asked that his identity not be revealed in the interview. “I’m warm, fed and safe, the only thing is, is that we are not getting any money and because of the smoking and drinking ban, things for some of the guys here are a little extra tough”’ he said.
He admitted that he is also struggling without his daily cigarettes, but maybe this is a good time for him to stop smoking. 
“I have been smoking for a long time and this is the longest I have been without a cigarettes”, he said. The Standerton man told the Ladysmith Herald, that he enjoys reading and wishes that he had a few more books to read from.  “I have about three books I’m reading, and the one I have, I  started reading now for the second time.” , he said. He added that if he is not reading the books given, he finds comfort in his bible. “It is the only thing that keeps me from going insane, and the faith that I have in God is going to keep me going, so that I can see my daughter”.  He proudly showed off a picture of his daughter, that he carries with him all the time. “Knowing that she is safe with her mum and I can talk to her, when I get a chance, that is what’s keeping me from going mad”.  Despite all the hardship experienced, the Standerton man believes that things will be okay and that people will come out of this situation. “We just have to pray and listen to the leaders and make sure that we take care of ourselves, then I know that everything will be okay”, he added