Veteran actor Rishi Kapoor, one of the most celebrated Bollywood actors passed away this morning after a reported cancer relapse. He was 67. According to a statement issued by the family, “Our dear Rishi Kapoor passed away peacefully at 8:45am IST in hospital today after a two-year battle with leukemia. The doctors and medical staff at the hospital said he kept them entertained to the last. He remained jovial and determined to live to the fullest right through two years of treatment across two continents. Family, friends, food and films remained his focus and everyone who met him during this time was amazed at how he did not let his illness get the better of him.” While it was Bollywood’s megastar and a dear friend of Rishi Kapoor – Amitabh Bachchan who broke the news on his Twitter handle, other celebs too have been taking to their social media handles to express their shock and condolences to the family of the bereaved including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted to condole the shocking demise of the Bollywood veteran. He wrote: ‘Multifaceted, endearing and lively..this was Rishi Kapoor ji.” Superstar Amitabh Bachchan posted on Twitter. “He’s GONE .. ! Rishi Kapoor .. gone .. just passed away .. I am destroyed ! “ Tweets from other celebrities : Anushka Sharma “ I’m at an absolute & total loss for words.Holding this phone in disbelief. Yesterday Irrfan and now …. Gutted , sad , heartbroken .I truly believed you’ll come out of this .You will be missed , Sir . RIP . Om Shanti.” Katrina Kaif “ Worst yr evr…. Another legend passed away… RIP RishiKapoor” Priyanka Chopra “ My heart is so heavy. This is the end of an era. #Rishisir your candid heart and immeasurable talent will never be encountered again. Such a privilege to have known you even a little bit. My condolences to Neetu maam, Ridhima, Ranbir and the rest of the family. Rest in peace Sir.” Akshay Kapoor “ It seems like we’re in the midst of a nightmare…just heard the depressing news of #RishiKapoor ji passing away, it’s heartbreaking. He was a legend, a great co-star and a good friend of the family. My thoughts and prayers with his family ” Madhuri Dixit Nene “ I’ve had the honour of working with Rishi ji. A larger than life person, so outspoken yet so warm. We have lost a brilliant actor today. Still can’t believe it.. absolutely heartbroken. My prayers are with the family during this tough time.” Ajay Devgan “ One blow after another. Rishi ji’s passing away is nothing short of a stab to my heart. We associated in Raju Chacha (2000) and stayed in touch through…until now. Condolences to Neetuji, Ranbir, Riddhima & Dabbooji ” Rishi is survived by his wife, Neetu Kapoor and his two children, Ranbir and Riddhima Kapoor.