Two men between the ages of 24-27 will be appearing in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrates Court on charges of murder and rape of 74 year-old Ngenzeni Zuma. A case of murder and rape was opened at Plessislaer police station after the incident that occurred on 29 March, when the body of Ngenzeni Zuma (74) was found at her home in Sweetwaters in Pietermaritzburg. She was allegedly raped and strangled to death. Provincial Organised Crime Unit detectives were assigned to investigate the case and bring the perpetrators to book. A 27-year-old suspect was arrested at his home in KwaShange in Pietermaritzburg and a 24-year-old was traced to be in the Point area in Durban. The murder of the pensioner sent shockwaves through the country and left the family reeling in anger. Thobile Zuma, the deceased’s daughter, said that her mother was raped and strangled to death by men pretending to be members of the SAPS and South African National Defense Force (SANDF) and were assigned to sanitise her home following the COVID-19 outbreak. Thobile said: “We think my mother let them in because she believed they were there to sanitise her home because of the coronavirus.” Zuma was alone at the time of the incident and her body was discovered later in the day, by her grandson. “She was in bad shape. The clothing and tie that they had used to strangle her was still around her neck,” Thobile said. Intensive police investigations have linked the suspects to the rape of a 20-year-old female who was allegedly raped on the same night. The 2 suspects will also be charged for the second rape. They will be profiled to determine if they can be linked to any other pending cases in the province.   The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula welcomed the arrest and condemned the attack of an elderly woman which has brought severe anguish to the family and neighbours. The community is urged to ensure they are vigilant during the lockdown period and take all necessary precautions to screen people before you allow anyone into your home.