Gender based and domestic violence is a problem under lockdown. KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala sounded a stern warning last week that the coronavirus lockdown was not a reason for gender based violence —but it seems that nobody heard him. While crime in general in South Africa looks like it has fallen, violence against women and children has alarmingly increased. During the first week of lockdown, the South African Police Service received about 2300 cases of gender based violence. Gender Based Violence includes all contact crime – including murder, rape and physical abuse – against women. In Overport, the Kenilworth Respite Centre has said that they receive calls almost daily of women calling out for help as they are at the receiving end of domestic violence. “We are filled to capacity at our small centre. We have to refer victims to other centres and safe houses,” said a spokesperson for the centre. The most recent case was reported yesterday, of a Westville woman facing the challenges of such violence. She and her four children had to be removed and taken to a place of safety. A representative went to the Westville police station to report the incident on behalf of the victim. “The police were very responsive and did not hesitate to help. The lady was safely taken out. We are very thankful to the police for the quick action. The next step will now be that a protection order is sought from the courts and will be served on the husband,” said the spokesperson. Victims of gender based violence are generally confined to isolated homes with abusive partners whose actions and temperament are exacerbated, among other reasons, through economic stress, alcohol abuse, substance abuse, irritability; anger and frustration, anxiety and depression. Mayville SAPS Community Police Forum’s secretary and member of eThekwini Secure, Mohammed Ismail, encouraged anyone who was aware, or a victim of, domestic violence to immediately report it. “Do not hesitate. Report the abuse immediately to the police. You have lots of support from the police, courts and community based organisations like ours. “If we continue to keep quiet the problem will not go away. Just as we need to flatten the curve when it comes to the novel coronavirus, we need to not only flatten the curve of gender based violence, but eliminate the problem completely,” said Ismail. He challenged all men in the community to stand up and speak out against this “disease” saying that men must take responsibility collectively to stop the sickening scourge of violence against women and children. “We must also be mindful of the fact that domestic violence includes the frail, elderly, parents and people with disabilities. The lockdown is difficult and it becomes easy when everybody is in everyone else’s way for arguments to erupt. This can lead to ugly confrontation even in a home that is free from such problems,” said Ismail. Report gender based violence and domestic abuse by calling SAPS on 10111 or the domestic violence helpline on 0861-322-322.