In the wake of the temporary closure of Netcare Kingsway Hospital in Amanzimtoti, since yesterday, KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu has said it was extremely worrying that the hospital management took a decision to close the hospital. Addressing media, Simelane-Zulu said a team of senior departmental officials have been sent to investigate the situation and determine what transpired whilst attempting to ascertain if the hospital had the situation under control. She also said that at least six health care workers are reported to be Covid19 positive, but that this number could increase as more test results are released. She warned that should investigations uncover negligence at the hospital as the department closely monitors the situation, consequence management is expected.Simelane-Zulu said in media reports, “These latest developments will also form part of the ongoing investigation involving St Augustine’s Hospital, which is owned by the same hospital group.” READ MORE : TOTI KINGSWAY HOSPITAL CLOSED Shocked by the hospital closure at Kingsway Hospital, a team of representatives from the Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa), National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), SACP and SA Medical Association (Sama), was reported to have visited the hospital and engaged with management. It emerged that Denosa was not satisfied with the meeting as numbers for positive COVID patients and staff were not divulged. Meanwhile, National Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize said in a media address at a visit to a COVID-19 facility in Mpumalanga that serious action will be taken against public and private hospitals that fail to follow the mandatory procedures when treating patients diagnosed with the Coronavirus. Mkhize urged healthcare workers to take extra precautions to protect themselves against the deadly virus. “To protect staff we have to ensure that there is training, protective gear and protocols that have to be followed. We are going to make sure that everybody, public or private, follow the standard operating procedures and the necessary protocols so that no one has got their own way of managing this issue. There is a standard for everyone and it is not a matter of choice for anyone, it is mandatory that people follow the protocols. We will take action. We have closed down two hospitals already in Mpumalanga and KZN and this will happen when we take action,” Mkhize said in reports. Another Netcare medical facility, St Augustine’s Hospital had to close its doors last week following a gross outbreak of COVID-19 at the hospital. The hospital reported 66 positive COVID-19 cases, both staff and patients with five deaths as reported by KZN Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu.