eThekwini residents have been put on notice following the arrest of 114 people on Monday, 20 April, for flouting the rules and regulations of the current Covid-19 lockdown, and being out of their homes without a valid reason or having a permit. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala on Monday, joined the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Bheki Ntuli and eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda in manning some of the 30 roadblocks that have been put in place to limit movement around the city. This was after Zikalala declared the eThekwini Municipality as the epicentre of the Covid-19 virus in South Africa. Zikalala announced this at the Provincial Command Council briefing on 19 April, while revealing that eThekwini has the highest number of positive coronavirus cases and deaths in the province, making it the epicentre. “We expected the curve to go down in eThekwini like in other districts but this is not happening because there are still people roaming around and there are those who are still selling alcohol through back doors, hence the need for this intervention,” Zikalala said. He warned those without permits to stay home and not fall foul of the heavy law enforcement and roadblocks that will be placed in suburbs, townships and identified hotspots, including uMlazi, Chatsworth and Verulam among other areas. “With what resources we have, we will be patrolling townships and suburbs. This is not for today only, it will be carrying on until we are satisfied that the residents of eThekwini are adhering to the rules and regulations of the lockdown. We will try and do our best to enforce the regulations and we will interact with national on getting more reinforcements,” Zikalala said. Zikalala confirmed that Monday’s roadblocks managed to net 114 people for the violation of the lockdown regulations under the National Disaster Act. He however said the overall number is much higher than that for the province. “In KwaZulu-Natal as a whole, there have been more than 10 000 arrests for the violation of lockdown rules and regulations,” Zikalala said. This comes as the number of positive case rose to 3300, nationally, and the number of fatalities increased to 58. Of the 58 deaths, KZN has recorded 23, the highest number in SA making it the epicenter of the Covid-19 virus.