For medical students in their final year of study, the nationwide lock down is bittersweet. Lindokuhle Ntshangase, a final year University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) student explains that whilst the lockdown is essential to control the spread of the virus, the uncertainty that exists for him and the rest of his class is alarming. Ntshangase, who hails from the rural town of Pongola, situated in Northern KwaZulu-Natal, said: “Qualifying as a medical doctor is my dream. The world is facing a pandemic that has claimed a lot of lives. The lockdown is necessary to flatten the curve, and everyone should comply with the restrictions provided. However, the lockdown has hugely affected the academic calendar, especially for the clinical medicine students. Our learning is at the bedside. There is no way that you can teach these skills from reading, it needs to be practical.” Many of his peers and other final year medical students, across the country, should have at this time been partaking in hands-on clinical skills learning and bedside training while attending to patients. The medical curriculum consists of bedside teaching in hospitals, without which the student cannot graduate. Despite academic material having being uploaded onto online platforms, bedside teaching cannot be delivered without the practical experience. Compounding his studies challenge, is the lack of sufficient data and when data is available the reception is very poor in the rural areas. Ntshangase said that in 2014 he lost his father to a terminal illness. “It was a very difficult time for me. I had wished for him to see the day I got admitted to medical school, which has always been a dream of mine. He encouraged me to work hard so that I could be the first doctor in the family. Now, I am uncertain whether I will in fact complete my degree this year or not,” said Ntshangase. UKZN, like all other academic institutions, closed their doors early and they have been engaging in e-learning. The university’s first term was already hit by delays, due to registration issues and violent student protests. UKZN said that academics are working diligently to upload all material onto online platforms. Professor Nana Poku, vice-chancellor and principal of UKZN sent out a message to the UKZN community pledging its commitment to ensure the continuation of teaching and learning during the lockdown. For Ntshangase and others in his class, the uncertainty in these challenging times has left them pondering whether it would be best to leave the safety of their homes and return to the clinical settings, to tackle the pandemic head-on or remain at home and try to learn clinical skills through online platforms. With the lockdown currently in place and no certainty exists whether the extension will go beyond the 21 days, a number of future doctors and medical professionals could be forced to delay their entry into the health sector.