While handwashing and physical distancing remains the most important prevention strategies for Covid19, Dr Mkhize has said that face-masks are recommended as an addition to hand-washing and social distancing.  “However, the face mask should never be promoted as our primary prevention strategy and should never be promoted separately from hand-washing and social distancing,” said Dr Mkhize. To ensure that N95 masks and surgical masks are secured for workers who really need them, Dr Mkhize recommended that the cloth face-mask should be used by the general population.  Dr Mkhize said that there is sufficient scientific evidence to show that the cloth face mask significantly reduces the amount of virus that can be emitted.   Cloth masks are easy and not expensive to make, reusable and help reduce the transmission of Covid-19. The purpose of the mask is to reduce droplets that come out of the mouth or nose during speaking, coughing and sneezing. Clive Pillay from the Chatsworth Nelson Mandela Youth Centre said, “Avoid touching the mask or your face while you’re out. When you are back home, wash the mask with soap and water immediately without using chemicals and wash your hands again. After washing the masks, iron it or leave it out in the sun to dry.” Don’t share your mask with anybody else. It’s preferable every person has two masks so they can be interchanged during washes. Remember not to handle the inside layer of the mask when taking it off or putting it on. “Wear a mask, I protect you, you protect me,” said Pillay. The Health Department has given some basic rules to be observed to ensure that face masks are safe for use: • The face-mask must cover the nose and mouth completely.• Face-masks should not be lowered when speaking, coughing or sneezing.• Face-masks should never be touched – fidgeting with the mask repeatedly is strongly discouraged as it is important to avoid touching the face with hands. The inner side of the mask should not be touched by hands.• Wash hands before and after donning or removing the face-mask.• Wash cloth face-masks with warm soapy water and iron when dry. Ironing assists with decontamination• Change your cloth face mask if it is wet or visibly soiled• Each person will need to have at least 2 face-masks so that one face-mask is available when the other is being washed.