In a bid to protect the elderly and persons living with disabilities, the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) has changed the dates it pays social grants, from month-end to the fourth and the sixth of every month. SASSA said lessons learnt from the last payment cycle, during the national lockdown, have compelled the agency to move the dates to four and six days later. The agency said: “As from the month of  May, disability and older persons grants will be paid from the fourth day of the month. All other grants will be paid from the sixth of every month.” This follows the rush and almost stampede witnessed at pay points between 30 March and 1 April, dates set aside for the elderly and disabled to get their grants and shopping done. However, this was not adhered to by those receiving social grants and there were at least three elderly deaths reported on pension payout days. Impatient child support grant beneficiaries could not wait for 1 April and descended upon payment channels as early as 30 March. “There was also a nasty scene in a Dobsonville shopping centre in Soweto where a group of youngsters were captured on video pushing older people in order to access payment infrastructure first,” the agency said. To avoid a repeat of the incidents witnessed, SASSA opted to change the dates of payment after consulting key role players. “What came out of the consultations are that people with disabilities and the aged need to be protected from the month end rush at payment outlets and therefore payment needs to be staggered in such a way that these categories of beneficiaries receive their grants before others,” the agency said. However the decision has received mixed views from grant recipients. Lungi Khumalo, a young mother of three from Westrich in Newlands West, said she had not budgeted for the extra days. “I bought groceries for the month, to last us until the month end, not knowing there will be additional days. The worst part is that we got the money early, so for some of us it’s an additional seven days that we did not budget for. We live month-end to month-end, we don’t have any extra money for food. This is wrong, we all should have been considered,” Khumalo said. Bongekile Radebe, 69, said that this is why you must have extra hidden away for rainy days. “The situation was bad on grant day, which is why I decided to go back home and wait till later. Luckily for me I can afford to save a little each month, so the date change will not affect me much but I see that SASSA is doing this for the elderly. The queues were really bad on 30 March, I’m very glad that they have found a way around it,” Radebe said. Older persons who use one card to also receive child support and foster child grants will be able to access all linked grants from the fourth of every month. “Once the money is in the account, it will remain there until it is needed, ” assured SASSA CEO Busisiwe Memela.