The MEC for Finance, Ravi Pillay said that final plans are being made to provide shelter for the homeless people in the Phoenix area during the Covid-19 lockdown. The MEC was talking in an exclusive interview with the Phoenix Tabloid on Friday, 3 April. The MEC who conducted oversight visits to various areas in Phoenix earlier this week said they were in discussions with the relevant role-players to get accommodation for the homeless. He said he was impressed with the operations at the various departments providing essential services to members of the public. ‘’We visited the Starwood Clinic at the SASSA offices and got a sense of their work – I was impressed with their operation. We also had a meeting with Colonel Moodley from SAPS Phoenix who I believe has good leadership, engages, listens to challenges and finds solutions. We then proceeded to the local Mahatma Gandhi Hospital where we met with the hospital management. I was also impressed with their level of readiness. The Pharmacy has also started producing their own sanitisers – and we will be looking at how we can assist with finance towards this process‘’ said MEC Pillay. He said that they were able to engage with management to fast track payments of SASSA grants as well as long queues for shoppers at the local retail stores as members of the public were standing in close proximity to one another for long hours which is against the social distancing regulations.MEC Pillay added that during his walkabout, other discussions arose concerning traders and vendors selling fruit and vegetables on the streets. “We were able to get the police to authorise licensed street traders dealing with fruit and vegetables to sell. From what I’ve seen so far, we are doing well – there will be difficult times ahead, and we all need to work together and rise above this pandemic,‘’ said MEC Pillay.He emphasised the importance of maintaining social distancing, washing hands regularly and sanitising. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the acting Station Commander at SAPS Phoenix,  Colonel B Moodley said the police are doing everything they can to keep everything under control with the available resources in Phoenix. “Our whole focus is on the Covid-19 lockdown, we are using the available resources we have with the assistance of Metro Police as well as that of Public Order Policing from time−to-time,” said Col Moodley.Col Moodley said they have experienced several challenges during the lockdown. “Members of the public are always finding excuses to come out of the house and drive around, which has been our biggest challenge. This is a national crisis and we all need to take it seriously. We want to discourage people from moving around and putting their lives at risk of contracting this virus,” said Col Moodley. He further stated that another challenge they faced was seeing homeless people whilst patrolling the streets. They have also received complaints from residents. “We had taken 102 homeless people to the shelter at Moses Mabhida but we were declined as the shelter was already filled to capacity and could not accommodate any more people. However, we have discussed with the MEC plans to have a place of safety for the homeless people within the Phoenix area,” added Col Moodley.