 A defiant Dundee liquor outlet owner, who was busted for allegedly selling liquor despite stringent lockdown regulations, has had his entire stock confiscated by the police.The police have also seized the CCTV footage devices, the cash register and point of sale equipment and placed the premises under indefinite lockdown. Acting on a tip off by a member of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature, KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, accompanied by members of both the KZN Liquor Authority and SA Police Service visited the store on Sunday, 5 April 2020 and found it open. Prior to the visit, the MPL had already opened a case with the local police but had found little joy with the enforcement prompting him to engage the services of the department. Evidence of transgression had been brought before the local police and the KZN Liquor Authority.The non-co-operative outlet owner and his sons denied any wrong doing despite compelling evidence resulting in his CCTV, cash register and point of sale equipment being seized, when he could not demonstrate when the last transaction had taken place. An SAPS Advocate on the site ordered the removal of the equipment, confiscation of the alcohol and the total shutdown of the place pending further investigations.Commenting at the scene, Dube-Ncube said, “This is shocking that business owners can blatantly disregard the laws and lockdown regulations.”“We are investigating the allegations that this place has been selling liquor during this time. We are here with the police and the Liquor Authority to establish the veracity of these serious allegations,” she said. While in the area, Dube-Ncube also visited two retailers, after reports of price gouging. She was not satisfied by the exorbitant prices of essential food items on the shelves. She was also not happy that one retailer, kept damaged cans of beans and tin fish on the shelves, saying this was a huge health hazard and ordered the removal of the items.“It’s shocking. We want to say to all the South African citizens and the KZN residents, that we are going to make sure that law enforcement is going to take its course to those that do not adhere to the regulations as prescribed by the President [Cyril Ramaphosa]. The president is serious about protecting our citizens against the coronavirus,” she said.Dube-Ncube said her Department will continue to ensure that enforcement during the lockdown is heightened. “We will go after everyone who breaks the law regardless of who they are and what their standing in society is. There are no sacred cows. I wish to applaud our entity, local Endumeni mayor and the police for their swift reaction to this. Working together we will flatten the curve and defeat the corona virus,” she said. 