This week saw the KwaZulu-Natal government intensifying efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. With 27 days into the lockdown, many households and businesses are struggling to survive.  Tabloid Newspapers spoke to people in different parts of Durban to find out how they are coping with the lockdown. Khanyisile Mqushwana, a spaza shop owner from Siyathuthutha Informal Settlement, in Sea Cow Lake, said that her business is really struggling as people no longer have money to spend. “When the lockdown began, people spent a lot of money panic buying, now that all the food is gone, they come to my shop to buy on credit. I understand people are struggling but I am also running a business, I cannot sell on credit because I also need to stock up,” she said.  She says while lockdown is necessary, government should relook at the situation because people cannot depend on food parcels, they need money too, to pay bills and for other necessities. Mqushwana said most people in the settlement are unemployed but the lockdown has made the situation worse. Mother of two, Baduduzile Ngcobo, from Inanda, said that she has no food in the house and she doesn’t know what to do. Ngcobo supports her family with her 14 year-old daughter’s grant money. “As we are told to stay at home, I cannot hustle for my kids as I normally do by selling chicken feet on the weekends. Times are really hard,” she said.  Ngcobo feels that people should be allowed to continue to work as long as they keep safe and adhere to the regulations. 21-year-old, out of work taxi driver, Njabulo Mjoli from Khabazela Village in Avoca, says times are hard for everyone. “People are really struggling with the lockdown as most of the people here are either unemployed or survive with peace jobs including myself.” said Mjoli. He says he spends his days idling around when he should be out there looking for a job to support his family. “I am not used to sitting around and doing nothing, my family need me as my sisters who are supporting us are also out of work due to the lockdown. I don’t know how we are going to get through this, “he said. Domestic worker, Thabeka Zindlovu from Amaoti, said while the lockdown is necessary, she feels the government could have been more prepared for it. “I work three days a week and since I am out of work with no money coming in, there is no food in the house. How are we going to survive? If the lockdown is extended what is going to happen to us? I don’t even have electricity in the house,” she said. Informal trader, Xolani Khuzwayo from Amaoti, says that business hasn’t been booming as most people are out of work but it is better than nothing. Khuzwayo sells fruits and vegetables such as potatoes, tomatoes, cabbages and sweet potatoes on the street . “I don’t have a permit to trade but I am not causing trouble for anybody, I am just trying to survive. It is not the same now as most people are struggling financially but I am happy to go home with R50 in my pocket which is better than nothing at all,” he said.  Khuzwayo said he is always looking over his shoulder for the police or the army as he doesn’t have a permit but he says nothing has happened to him as yet. Up and coming Afro soul artist, Nomcebo “Lee Diamond” Radebe, from central Durban says the lockdown has created many new opportunities as well as lost ones.  “I had so many performances lined up including overseas but they were all cancelled due to the lockdown. I understand why but it is not easy,” Radebe says.  The 23-year-old says if artists don’t perform, they don’t get paid. “This is our livelihood and without it, we cannot afford to do the things we need to do like buy groceries and pay bills. With nothing coming in, it is hard to survive,” she said.  Radebe says while the lockdown has provided her the opportunity to reflect and fine tune her craft, she also need to survive. “Other artists are livestreaming and they are getting paid for it but for some of us, struggling musicians, we cannot afford to do that. We survive with live gigs in front of an audience, which at the moment is not possible,” said Radebe.  She encouraged people to adhere to the regulations as it is for the betterment of the country. “In order for us to come out of this alive, we need to work together in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Stay home, wash your hands regularly and please wear your mask to protect yourself and others,” said Radebe.