With the number of fatalities on the rise worldwide as a result of the coronavirus, the South African Cemeteries Association (SACA) has urged municipalities not to be complacent when it comes to crematoriums and burial space, in South Africa. SACA said: “South Africa unlike many of the first world countries that are currently grappling to contain the exponential spread of the coronavirus, will be in a precarious position should our numbers increase further, and the rate of death rises.” The association cautioned municipalities as the number of positive Covid-19 cases reported in SA increased to 1655, on 5 April. The number of deaths also increased to 11, with KwaZulu-Natal accounting for seven fatalities, since the start of the pandemic in SA. The association said that they are very much aware of the plight of what might come and that municipalities are already under pressure and facing a challenge with the disposal of remains, in the provision of burial space or cremation. The association said: “Our resources both in land, equipment, economic and human capital will render us wanting. In light of these facts, SACA implores municipalities to speedily plan for the potential demand for cemetery and cremation services in response to the possible increase in fatalities due to the Covid-19 pandemic.” The eThekwini Municipality earlier this year reported that it had around 5000 burial spaces left in the city, while a number of crematoriums reported problems with their cremators. “This will prove to be a serious challenge as South Africa is poorly equipped for cremations which is the recommended method by authorities locally and internationally for managing the treatment of corpses infected with the virus. It is estimated that there are less than a hundred cremators available in the country which will be insufficient
for a possible demand. Many of these facilities are currently overburdened and in frequent need of repair,” the association added. They said it was time for municipalities to consider the guidelines for the treatment of mass burials. “If it is logistically difficult to bury large numbers in single graves, then communal or mass graves need to be prepared.” The association urged municipalities to consider the mitigation of restrictions placed on the establishment of cemeteries by the Department of Environmental Affairs and Health in order to provide for the possibility in increase of burials while still maintaining a safe environment. SACA strongly advises that the process needs to commence immediately in anticipation of what might lie ahead. “International experience with regards to coping with this pandemic indicates that the best response is to be prepared and strictly follow the required protocols for eliminating the transfer of the virus,” said SACA