With the weak rand, shrinking GDP and the possibility of an extension of the nationwide lockdown looming, South Africans may have to welcome major lifestyle and financial changes as a result of the effects of the unabashed Covid-19 pandemic. Currently, business owners are feeling the strain of the lockdown and are hoping that they can get back to business at the earliest. Director of Euphoric Events, Asogan Papigadu said that their financial loss as a result of the lockdown has run into the thousands. “Being a service provider for events, which includes large gatherings, we were forced to close our doors and cancel all functions from the start of the pandemic, which extended into the lockdown. We were forced to pay back all monies for the cancelled functions, as we could not go against the lockdown regulations for the safety of my staff and those hosting events,” said Papigadu. A lecturer at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, Dr Ntokozo Nzimande said that this was just a reflection of our poor policies and planning. “Much of the problems we face today are a mirror image of our poor decision-making, including the load-shedding. The coronavirus will simply aggravate the situation and I don’t see the country escaping a fully-fledged recession,” said Nzimande.“At this point, we should prepare ourselves for what is yet to come. The battle hasn’t started yet—we are yet to see the real battle,” he added. Papigadu fears the uncertainty around a possible extension of the lockdown as the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases continue to rise. “A further extension of the lockdown will unfortunately cripple us indefinitely and in some cases, force us to close doors completely. Loss of income for staff must also be considered,” he said. “While the lockdown is necessary for as long as it takes to safeguard the lives of South Africans, a plan to assist SMME’s must be put in place with as little red tape and restrictions as possible,” added Papigadu. Nzimande points out that a consequence of a potential extension of the lockdown will affect the country’s crime rate as a result of an increase in unemployment.“Companies are already indicating that they will be forced to shut down or lay-off workers. The country is already battling with the stubbornly high rate of unemployment of  29.1% and this will worsen the situation as unemployment will skyrocket. Sadly, unemployment and crime cannot be divorced, if unemployment rises, the country’s crime rate will follow suit,” said Nzimande. The Minara Chamber of Commerce recently released a statement commenting on the impact of a further lockdown.In the statement, the organisation advises employers, employees, government and unions to engage in scenario planning in order to avoid any civil unrest in the event of an extension.“Dissect various areas that that have to be considered, be it health care, social services, business support and relief co-ordination to ensure scenario planning that prepares us for the next few months,” said the statement.The organisation believes that the road to financial recovery will be a long one, possibly leading to around five years. “Even established, financially well-off businesses will be affected since job losses and poverty means less buyers, lower sales and lower profits,” said the organisation. Although there may be a positive impact of an extension of the lockdown towards the healthcare of those affected by the virus, Nzimande does not see any positives economically. “Economic-wise, there are no pro’s to an extension. But again, lives of the people are more important. On that note, I would say it will indeed yield positive impact. The lockdown is merely meant to control the rate of new infections, to reduce the spread of the virus and thereby not putting too much pressure on our already weak healthcare system. Our health system cannot be able to accommodate massive numbers, which is why it is essential that, by all means necessary, we control the rate of the spread,” said Nzimande.