Kwa Zulu-Natal (KZN) will see the deployment of 1400 health care workers as tracers and 10 400 care givers in communities to conduct tests related to the novel coronavirus. The announcement was made by KZN premier Sihle Zikalala at a media briefing in Mayville this afternoon (Friday, 3 April). This follows an intensive meeting by the KZN Covid-19 command team. A home screening programme will be launched in Umlazi tomorrow (Saturday, 4 April). Zikalala said that while the government’s labs could test 1000 cases a day, the roll-out of home testing would improve turnaround time. “This will help us achieve quicker diagnoses,” he said. He said that field workers would be easily identifiable with specially marked clothes and identity documents. “This will make it hard for criminals to misrepresent the government and terrorise communities. The field workers must be welcomed in your homes only if they have the necessary and proper identification,” said Zikalala. He said that in KZN itself there were 225 cases of the coronavirus reported with six deaths. “There is no district in the province that does not haves cases. All areas are potential hotspots. Please understand that it affects all areas. It must be discouraged that the coronavirus is seen as a suburban disease. It is important for everyone to heed instructions,” said Zikalala. Countrywide, 1505 cases of the coronavirus have been reported. About 31 people infected have recovered while nine deaths have been reported. Of the two of the nine deaths, two are yet to be confirmed of being infected. He said that following a social media frenzy alluding to a sense of panic of an outbreak in uMlazi after a family was tested positive for the virus the Department of Health has deployed tracing teams in the area. Zikalala also referred to a private hospital in Durban where 11 of 22 nurses were tested positive for Covid-19. He steered clear of naming the hospital, but said that it would be named “at somepoint” as it was already public knowledge. “We are tracing all people who were treated at the hospital from 1 March to determine the outbreak there. There is a possibility that the hospital will be shut down and we have advised them to stop taking patients.” He said that all other private hospitals in the area will be looked into. In another development, Zikalala said that his office will press charges against three individuals, who knew that they were infected with the virus and willfully made contact with other people. “We are warning the public, stop exposing yourself. There is a disturbing development that the very important social distancing has been a challenge in some instances,” he said. Zikalala was referring to outlets like supermarkets while he at the same time commended retailers who took necessary steps to follow regulations. He said that communities should ensure that they enforce adherence to lockdown. “You should only go out to buy food or to get your medication. That is all. It is important to be clear about regulations,” warned Zikalala. Referring to gender based violence he said that lockdown was not an opportunity to abuse women and children. “Gender based violence is worrying. We are sending out a clear message to protect women and children. This is not an opportunity to abuse women and children. We call on everyone in areas to spread this message.” Zikalala warned communities who were in violation of the lockdown regulations that people will get arrested or fined. He further cautioned against anyone or any social media platforms against naming people, or their families, directly affected by the coronavirus. “This will lead to stigmatisation. We do not want that. They need solidarity, care and support. We as the government are not going to fall into that trap to name anyone. They are not going to be victimised and we are not going to make them suffer,” added Zikalala.