Screening for the coronavirus (Covid-19) began on Wednesday, 8 April, at The Association for the Aged (Tafta) John Dunn house, in Durban. All the elderly residents agreed to be screened as a means of flattening the curve of Covid-19. Tafta CEO, Femada Shamam said that the Department of Health informed them of their visit to the homes this week to conduct voluntary coronavirus screenings. “The department has thus far been to John Dunn House and Tafta Park, where they have encouraged all of our elders to be a part of the process. The process being rolled out involves an initial screening using a questionnaire and depending on the answers to these questions, tests are administered, “said Shanam.Shamam confirmed that to date there have been no positive coronavirus cases.  “If we do present with a positive case, we will immediately follow NICD protocols, she added. To date, Tafta has instituted the following precautionary measures in their homes: A team of 150 staff, consisting of permanent staff and service providers such as cleaners, security and carers have opted to live in all of the Tafta homes to minimize risk to the elders. “I am humbled by the sacrifice made by these 150 Tafta staff and other care partners who are working and living in our homes during the lockdown. They have sacrificed time, which they could have spent at home with their families, to ensure the safety and well-being of our elders. Their service and compassion are highly appreciated by all of us. “Other staff members continue to work remotely from home to keep our organisation fully functional. In times like these we learn that resilience in the face of adversity can tap into unexpected strengths, ” Shamam added. She confirmed that Tafta has:• Prioritised hygiene and sanitation protocols to ensure elders are protected against the contraction of the corona virus.• Restricted internal gatherings to small groups.• Continued the education programme by ensuring the latest news, regulations and sources of information have been made available to all the homes. • Created a direct line of communication, which is open to all residents.• Leveraged existing elder committee platforms to ease anxiety.• Established a team of champion communicators with whom daily feedback is shared via WhatsApp – this enables Tafta to immediately implement solutions to distressing issues for both elders and staff. • Restricted the donation of food to grocery items only, thereby eliminating the opportunity for contamination through cooked food. • Limited access to homes to essential service providers only. • Discouraged elders from leaving the home and called on willing volunteers to assist with grocery shopping and collecting of medication. • Postponed non-emergency doctor and hospital visits and ensuring care staff are available and routinely check on elders.  Shamam confirmed that the screenings at Tafta are expected to be completed by the end of today, Thursday, 9 April.