“Even though we live on the streets, we are still very much human and deserve dignity,” says Sifiso Zulu, one of the many homeless people who were recently taken out from living under the Ncandu bridge in Newcastle and placed in a make shift shelter at the old casino for the duration of the national lockdown. Social worker, Nolindokhule Kubheka from the Department of Social Development said that she had read the article in The Newcastle Express regarding the people living under the bridge. “I read the article with a heavy heart about Zama Luck feeding all of them. When the lockdown was announced it pained me because the thought struck me that they also needed to be in islolation like the rest of the country. How can they be in isolation under a bridge?” explained an emotional Khubeka. It was then that she got into contact with people, who do not wish to be named, and eventually found a temporary shelter for them during the lockdown. “We arranged transport, had them sanitized and explained the reason for the move, and while some of them were hesitant at first, because they are a tight knit community of their own, they eventually agreed and that is how we got them here.” Zama Luck, the lady who feeds them on a weekly basis says that she is very happy. “Seeing them living in those conditions under the bridge just breaks my heart. I am thankful to all those who put in their time and effort to help me get them off of the streets,” she explained Another homeless person, Mphumi Bheka said that she did not fully understand why they were taken away from their ‘home.’ “Usually it is only Zama who treats us like we are human beings, yes we smoke, some of us take drugs or sniff glue but it is the only life that we know. We are always ignored from the normal shopper right up to the President,” she said. “We were informed about a sickness that started somewhere in China and is now spreading worldwide so we are now here in this shelter to keep us safe. We are given sanitizers and a lot of people have donated clothes and blankets. Something that we are not used to so in a way this sickness is a blessing in disguise to us because now we are being treated as humans,” she said. Another vagrant, who did not want to be named,  said that he understood what was happening regarding covid-19 s from information that he had received from social workers . “I understand that it is serious and can kill you so I am thankful to all those wonderful people who remembered us, the beggars of Newcastle. We thank you for your kindness.”