Following investigations into the shocking number of positive COVID-19 cases at St Augustine’s Hospital in Durban, the KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu has announced the closure of the hospital until further notice. Emerging as the alleged epicentre of the Coronavirus in KZN, only one ward remains open at the hospital, where positive COVID-19 patients are being treated. Simelane-Gugu said at a media briefing, that upon receiving reports that the hospital allegedly failed to take the necessary safety and preventative measures, an indepth investigation has been undertaken by the department of health to determine what transpired at the hospital leading to the high infection rate and five recorded deaths at the facility. “We have closed down the hospital but this was done in phases,” she added. Simelane-Gugu said firstly, that the hospital was instructed not to admit any more patients as of last Wednesday.“However, before we started discharging or removing patients to other facilities, we had to test all the patients. If you want to contain the virus you need to know who you have and treat the people there. With the results trickling in, we’ve been able to remove patients who are sick with other conditions but do not have the virus to other facilities.Those that are well have been discharged to go home. The department of health has indicated to the hospital that the healthcare workers in the  hospital who have been infected must also be quarantined at the facility,” Simelane-Gugu said. She added that once all of the infected patients have recovered, the hospital itself will be quarantined to make it safe again.Simelane-Gugu said following the in-depth investigation into the handling and spread of the virus at St Augustine’s Hospital and by following the proper channels, anyone held to account will be brought to book.  It was reported that 1,982 staff and health care workers on the campus of St Augustine’s Hospital were tested. Results returned with 47 positive health care workers and staff and 74 positive patients. READ MORE : Investigations into Covid-19 outbreak at St Augustine’s Hospital continues READ MORE : St Augustine’s Hospital under the microscope – 66 test positive for Covid-19