As a Phoenix family grieves the tragic death of their beloved father and grandfather, in a horrific hit and run incident on Sunday morning, police are searching for the runaway driver.Millbury resident, Rodger Pillay (55) was on his way to work at the port and was going to board a taxi when tragedy struck. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Pillay’s close friend and neighbour for more than 20 years, Suren Karamchand, said, “This is an unspeakable crime. It was heartbreaking to see my friend in such a terrible way. He was badly injured and to think that the driver just left him and drove off.  My heart breaks for Rodger’s family. His son had to go and identify his father. No child should have to be tasked with such a duty especially since Rodger was injured in that manner.” Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo, said, “A Phoenix SAPS member arrived on the scene at the corner of Phoenix Highway and Eastbury Drive, where the officer noted that ambulance services stood off and a body was laid on the road, covered with severe head injuries. The son of the deceased identified his father.” She added, “There were pieces of silver coloured broken plastic belonging to an unknown vehicle laying near the scene. Police are investigating a case of culpable homicide, failure to stop at an accident scene and failure to render assistance to an injured person.” KZN VIP Medical responded swiftly to the scene after receiving a call for assistance.Spokesperson for KZN VIP, Gareth Naidoo, said, “KZN VIP Medical control room received a call from a passing motorist requesting assistance at Phoenix Highway and Eastbury robots of a person lying on the middle intersection.KZN VIP Medics together with SAPS attended  but unfortunately the patient showed no signs of life and the 55 year old male was declared deceased on scene by VIP Medics and handed over to SAPS for further investigation.” Karamchand said, “Rodger was a humble and kind person. He was very involved in his church and was well-known in the community. Rodger was liked by all and it is sad that during these difficult times, he was going to work to earn a living for his family and this had to happen. The person who knocked him down did not bother that they injured and killed a family man, father and a grandfather.” “Rodger’s death is more difficult to bear as only a maximum of 50 people can attend his funeral as per the lockdown regulations. He was very popular and it is sad that many will not get the opportunity to bid him farewell” “We are praying and urging that the police find the  culprit who robbed a family of their loved one in such a heinous manner. We want justice to prevail,” added Karamchand. Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader, Patrick Pillay slammed the tragedy and said there is no excuse for the driver not to have stopped or reported the incident at the nearest police station shortly after it occurred.“The DLC  expresses our condolences to the family of the late Rodgers Pillay and request the community to remain calm and allow justice to take its course. It is a criminal offence for the driver to leave the scene. People who show no respect for life must face the full might of the law. Too many innocent lives are lost due to hit and run accidents,” said Pillay. According to Karamchand, Pillay will be laid to rest tomorrow (Tuesday).Anyone with information that can assist police in their investigation is urged to contact Phoenix SAPS on 031-508-2308.