Two positive Covid-19 patients have been admitted at Life Chatsmed Gardens Hospital and are currently quarantined. General manager of Emergency Medicine Life Healthcare, Dr Charl Van Loggerenberg has confirmed that Life Chatsmed Gardens Hospital has two COVID-19 positive patients admitted and that they are isolated in a dedicated COVID-19 ward within the facility. “At Life Healthcare, it is of paramount importance to ensure the safety of all people in our facilities against the risk of COVID-19 and any other infections. Over the past months, Life Healthcare has been working hard to prepare for an anticipated surge in COVID-19 patients. Currently, we are seeing a growing number of COVID-19 patients admitted throughout our healthcare facilities nationally; however, none of our hospitals are at or over capacity at this point in time,” Loggerenberg said. “As with all hospitals across the country, the risk of exposure to hospital employees and doctor’s means that they are implementing stringent infection prevention and control safety measures aligned to National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) guidelines. These include the COVID-19 personal protection (PPE) and universal masking policies as well as daily screening of any persons entering their hospitals. Employees and doctors are screened when they first enter the hospital building for the day. All employees and doctors are required to report potential exposure or symptoms to hospital management as a matter of urgency so that the necessary steps and precautions can be implemented. “ Loggerenberg further said, “Additionally, our healthcare workers exposure policy is in place to ensure the effective management and resourcing of our facilities for if, or when healthcare workers become exposed to the virus. This also ensures that our facilities can continue to operate as best as possible without little or minimal disruption.” Life Healthcare is frequently consulting with government, the doctors, employees and healthcare workers to ensure that their protocols and processes remain relevant for the needs of their patients.