Over the past week, there were increased reports of looting of liquor outlets in an attempt to steal alcohol and cigarettes, as many thought that this would relay the message of desperation to government and would hopefully have the ban lifted. However, all this fell on deaf ears as government is adamant that both alcohol and tobacco would adversely affect government’s means to stop the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19). On Wednesday, 15 April, the Fair-trade Independent Tobacco Association (FITA) released a statement threatening to approach the courts for the appropriate relief vis-a-vis the ban cigarette sale. The statement said that over the past week FITA received queries, submission and messages of support from far and wide in relation to the ban. “Many factors led to the decision to take the matter to court. The decision was not taken lightly. We agree with government that all reasonable steps necessary to ensure that we fight this virus to the best of our ability should be taken, however, the truth is, the current situation cannot be endured for much longer by role players along the tobacco industry value chain without severe consequences for all,” said FITA chairperson, Sinehlanhla Mnguni. He said that there have been situations where people have been assaulted and murdered for cigarettes. “Citizens are resorting to acts of criminality to get cigarettes, and the sale of illicit cigarettes is flourishing, whilst the legitimate tobacco industry is prevented from participating,” said Mnguni. On Saturday night (18 April) Health Minister, Dr Zweli Mkhize, in his Covid-19 update responded and stated why government will not lift the ban. Mkhize said that smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol hinders the attempts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. “Smoking is not good for a normal healthy person, it is just bad for you,” said Mkhize. He said that in general, cigarettes are bad and that he is not a fan. “Both active and passive smoking is linked to many conditions, including primary disease, pulmonary symptoms or chest-related symptoms. It also affects the lining of the lungs and cardiovascular system. Once you include coronavirus as an added infection, we believe that those who smoke are more vulnerable to being affected because the virus affects the capacity of the lungs to be able to process the daily exchange of gases in the lungs,” Mkhize said. He said that people are discouraged to smoke as he sees no benefit of tobacco in an individual. He added that despite the lawsuits, government will not lift the cigarette ban. The sale of cigarettes in spaza shops, despite the attempts to stop it are continuing and smokers have less of a choice on what brand to smoke as most shops have run out of stock. The price of a single cigarette has doubled, as people become more desperate. A “loose” of a legitimate brand has gone from R3 to R5 and illicit cigarettes which are normally sold for R2 and less is now R3. Meanwhile, on Friday, 17 April, the presidential spokesperson, Khusela Diko, said that after much consideration of the issues raised by the Gauteng Liquor Forum, President Cyril Ramaphosa has decided that the ban on the sale of alcohol will not be lifted, during the Covid-19 National State of Disaster and Lockdown. This, after the Forum made representations, requesting government to lift or amend the regulation on the total ban of the sale of alcohol.