Members of Durban Solid Waste (DSW) were at Woodhurst Dump Site, in Sunset Avenue clearing waste removals that was scattered on the pavement, this week. Residents say that they have been faced with this problem since before the 21 day lockdown when DSW stopped collecting the rubbish, leaving them no choice but to leave it on the pavement outside the dump site. Head of DSW, Raymond Rampersad, Councillor Tony Govender of Ward 70 and various roleplayers were also on-site overseeing that all the waste is removed. Councillor Govender urged residents to stop dumping. “It is really sad and shocking to note that despite numerous reminders to residents about dumping at this site, it continues unabatedly. Residents will receive a minimum fine of R5000 for illegal dumping. They are urged to refrain from this practice,” Govender said. Meanwhile the community of Woodhurst claim that numerous times, their waste was not collected on the specified day and this is one of the reasons that the dumping sites are in this condition. Former PRO of Chatsworth CPF and Woodhurst Sub Forum, Suren Ganapathie said that the residents face these issues almost every month from last year. “Ratepayers are left helpless with their waste lying for days. I have contacted the respective departments numerous times and the answer I received were that trucks have broken down or there is a strike or a protest. Sometimes we even pay someone  R5 or R10 to pick bin packets and drop at the dump site yet we are already being charged by the municipality for these “services,” said Ganapathie. eThekwini Municipality’s Deputy Head of Communications, Mandla Nsele released a statement on 4 April that read as follows: 
“ Amidst the Covid-19 crisis, the Cleansing and Solid Waste Unit – DSW response as an essential public service is to keep waste management uninterrupted, safe and focused on public health protection. Waste collection and safe disposal are paramount for a good quality of life and to achieve this, communities are urged to take the president’s call for a national lockdown seriously by staying at home.”   Nsele added: “ Recent media coverage across communities in eThekwini has shown people leaving their homes and dumping refuse outside waste sites and this has to stop. “ It is regarded “unlawful” during the lockdown to leave home for this practice. It is placing additional challenges during the coronavirus crisis as DSW workers are left vulnerable by being physically exposed to the various health risks including infections in these clean ups. “   He said that DSW is working hard to ensure that waste workers are safe and precautionary measures are in place to mitigate transmission or infections to its workers and that this is a period of solidarity as well as social responsibility. “  During this time every citizen has to realise the importance of waste management and to take the lockdown seriously, as difficult as it may be, in order to emerge stronger as a society. DSW will strive to ensure that the level of public health protection will be kept and waste management services will not collapse during the coronavirus crisis, ” said Nsele  “Residents are to take note that collection of refuse will be as per normal scheduled collection days and should there be a concern then the DSW customer line can be reached. Remember DSW stays at work for you. You stay at home for us – DSW expresses its gratitude to the residents of eThekwini for their commitment as this is saluted with a big thank you, “ added Nsele.