As the nation hits 5647 confirmed cases of the Coronavirus (Covid-19), health experts continue to promote the importance of building one’s immune system in order to create a solid foundation that will help fight the risk of falling ill with the virus. Professor Suna Kassier, of the Discipline of Dietetics and Human Nutrition at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said that amidst the unfortunate pandemic, people are now constantly looking at ways to build up their and their family’s immunity to give them a better fighting chance against the virus.“As there is no vaccine yet to prevent us from getting ill, in addition to the fact that this is a new virus that the body has never been exposed to, eating well is a good start,” said Kassier.Kassier also reminds people that there is not a single food on the planet containing all the nutrients that the human body requires for optimal health. “Eating a variety of nutrient packed foods is key to obtaining all the necessary nutrients one needs on a daily basis. It is also important to remember that some foods are more nutritious than others,” she explained.These are Kassier’s top five super-foods (foods that are nutritionally dense) to help build up the body’s immune system to fight the effects of Covid-19:     •   Milk, yoghurt or Maas This is a massive source of Vitamin A with functions that include resistance to disease.     •   Citrus fruits (eg. oranges, naartjies and grapefruit) This is a huge source of Vitamin C and acts as an antioxidant while strengthening the immune system.     •   Orange and green vegetables (eg. carrots and spinach) This is a rich source of Betacarotene, also known as Pro-Vitamin A, and acts as an antioxidant as well as enhancing the body’s resistance to disease.     •   Peanuts or peanut butter This provides the body with Vitamin E to enhance immune function.     •   Wholewheat bread This is a powerful source of Vitamin E and Zinc to strengthen the immune system. By including any of these foods into one’s diet, they are not only protecting and strengthening their immune system, but also creating a strong foundation for a better and healthier lifestyle.