Action in Autism has created a Facebook page and a WhatsApp support group to support parents and grandparents of autistic children, as well as autistic people during the lockdown. According to Action in Autism these social media platforms provides a space of healing and a safety net during a trying time. “If you are feeling low, overwhelmed or just want a check-in as a parent these social media platforms are for you,” said one of the members. She added: “As mothers, fathers, autistic people, gogo’s or family members that support people with autism, we will provide emotional and psychological support during this time. We’ve also invited a few experts to help us on our journey.”  She said that the response has been wonderful and liberating to the individuals and families. Chantelle Heslop is a member of the Action in Autism page and mother to an eight-year-old autistic boy. She said that during the lockdown she created a Facebook page to create awareness, whilst commemorating World Autism Awareness Day which was on Tuesday, 2 April. “The page is called ‘A different normal’ where I share stories of our journey and Noah’s everyday experience. That’s how I try to create awareness,” said Heslop. Since the lockdown began, Heslop has created a story to explain why Noah has to be at home, practicing social distance. “I have explained with a social story. It is stuck on my kitchen wall as a visual. He often gets emotional and forgets. He has a fear of germs. I’ve explained that germs make us sick. It’s the only way he will understand,” said the mother. Heslop says that she is self-employed and works a full day until 5pm, and to keep Noah busy she lets him play on the tablet. Heslop said she doesn’t feel that lockdown is easy for her son especially because there are so many sensory needs that include eating certain textures and because of the limit he can’t have certain things.  “Noah also has to go to King Edward Hospital for his chronic medication, but he cannot. He can’t be around others during this Covid-19 time. If they could arrange a private collection without exposing my son, I would be happy. Sadly that is not the case,” said Heslop. A grandmother of an autistic child living in the township, who preferred not to be named, said she feels that as parents staying in townships no one recognises or celebrates the right of autism. “We feel isolated under normal circumstances. The public do not understand autism. To my family the lockdown is no different from the school holidays. ”  She added: “My grandson has Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and is non-verbal. He enjoys spending time with the family. We watch cartoons, play, dance together and do some house chores. I think the government has helped us as parents and kids by supplying a grant, free medication and affordable schools, however, I wish more staff could be hired in the government hospitals as our children can be very impatient.”  The granny said she feels that government should also prioritise teaching the public about autism, as it can happen to anyone. Action in Autism works hard on empowering autistic people and the families, giving them space to talk and engage with each other and professionals. They run an Early Childhood Development (ECD) centre, an adult skills transfer and business hub and a walk in resource centre.  They also provide free diagnostic clinics, support group meetings and advocacy and lobbying campaigns. For more information, Autism in Action can be contacted on email: info@actioninautism.org.za  or WhatsApp 084 207 8167 