The Coronavirus has affected all aspects of our lives and the constant news about the pandemic can spark feelings of impending doom. This in turn can take a toll on our mental health as well. Staying at home, social distancing and self-isolation are crucial steps in stopping the spread of the virus, but this can affect us psychologically. According to a coronavirus study by the University of Sheffield and Ulster, depression and anxiety have spiked worldwide after lockdown announcements. According to the study, there was a spike in the number of people reporting significant levels of depression and anxiety. While feelings of stress and anxiety are a completely normal response to our unusual and unprecedented circumstances, it is important that we try to curb the impact that it is having on us emotionally and physically. Stress can cause an excess of the hormone cortisone in our bodies, which increase our vulnerability to depression. Meanwhile the anxiety chemical adrenaline has been shown to have an adverse effect on our immune system- the very last thing that anyone needs at this moment. Local Functional Therapist, Specialist Lionel Harry, says that  while worry, anxiety and fear from shocking news are normal, it can become mentally and emotionally harmful if it is excessive. “Keeping a positive attitude during a crisis or disaster situations is a good way to start. Continue eating healthy foods, sleep well, study, exercise and play a good game of chess,” says Harry. Avoiding unnecessary educational pressure during this period is also a good way to keep stress levels low. “It is important to provide emotional support to your child at this time. Connect with nature, if possible do some gardening. Talk about concerns. Children tend to mirror adult behaviour so try to avoid excessive panic and worrying about things that are beyond your control.” Harry also says that it is imperative to allow children to communicate their feelings and in doing so one can provide parental support. “Children should study, read and play games. Use this time to bond as a family,” added Harry. “Also stick to your routine as much as possible as it reduces something called decision fatigue which is the exhaustion that comes from far too many opinions. So in the morning, rather than wondering whether to start work or help the kids with learning, it is better to know what you are going to do. Make a schedule and try to stick to it.” He also added that keeping to good sleeping patterns and focusing on positive news rather than allowing yourself the constant bombardment of coronavirus statistics is another way to stop oneself from going into depression. “While it is important to stay well informed, try to filter out unnecessary negativity regarding our current situation of this pandemic. We need to remember that as a country if we stick to the lockdown rules, then this too shall pass.”