A family member of the Moorton man who was diagnosed with Covid-19, has shared their experience with healthcare services in Chatsworth on Facebook. According to a post that was shared on Facebook by Shena Goorawa who is believed to be the niece of the patient, the lack of experience from staff members at the local hospital he had visited, could allegedly have put other lives at risk. “Before lock down had started, on 23 March, my uncle was unwell and visited a General Practitioner (GP). He was diagnosed with flu and a kidney infection. On 30 March, he was still unwell and visited a second GP who treated him and sent him home with medication. On 1 April, he experienced difficulty breathing and went back to the GP who gave him a note to go to the RK Khan Hospital. My brother who assisted my uncle by taking him to the hospital had informed the staff at the hospital that the patient is a Covid-19 case. He was told that he didn’t leave the country so there was nothing they could do. He was kept in casualty with all the other patients for eight hours before being moved to a private ward. On Friday, 3 April, two days later, they isolated him and ran tests. The test results came back positive, on 5 April, ” said Goorawa. According to family members, he did not travel and may have contacted the virus by local transmission. They claim that due to the inefficiency of staff members of RK Khan Hospital, many other patients could allegedly have been put at risk. Meanwhile the nurses, at RK Khan Hospital have complained that they do not have sufficient Personal protective Equipment (PPE). The nursing staff has alleged that they are only issued one blue medical mask per day which they have to sign for daily as their PPE. A nurse at the hospital, whose identity is known to Tabloid Newspapers, was especially worried about the rise in patients who tested positive for tuberculosis. “We are only using the blue masks given to us by the hospital and it’s not enough to protect us especially since we are seeing many TB patients frequently now as well,” said the nurse.  Another nurse said: “We are at the forefront of the healthcare system, we see to patients before the doctors do. More than our safety, we have to think of theirs. If we don’t have the proper PPE, we could possibly become carriers of the virus and go on to infect our patients,” she said. According to the hospital management, they are aware of the worldwide shortage of PPE including the N95 masks; however, they confirm that the hospital has an appropriate supply of PPE for their staff.  “The Department of Health Guidelines as to which PPE is to be given to which category of staff is strictly being adhered to at present. Staff is issued their PPE as per the guidelines,” said RK Khan Hospital’s PRO, Mbali Mthalane. Anyone who may have been in contact with the Moorton man that  tested positive for Covid-19, are urged to contact the Covid-19 hotline on 080-002-9999 to get tested.