The COVID-19 pandemic has claimed yet another life, this time an 81-year-old woman who succumbed to the deadly virus at St Augustine’s Hospital in Berea, on Thursday. Media reports state that the elderly Bluff woman had been initially admitted to the hospital as it was believed that she had suffered a stroke. Upon her discharge she was taken to the Bill Buchanan Association for the Aged in Morningside where she was convalescing.
 
Four days later, the aged woman apparently took ill again and was re-admitted to hospital where she tested positive for Coronavirus. 
Her health declined and she was said to have been on the ventilator until her passing on Thursday. Four others including residents from the home are reported to have tested positive for Covid-19 including one woman who was in the same sick bay as the 81-year-old now deceased patient. Staff and patients who had contact with the elderly patient have since been quarantined after  the Department of Health conducted screenings at the facility. Meanwhile, the trauma unit at St Augustine’s Hospital has temporarily closed its doors with patients being diverted to ambulances on site or the option to go to another hospital. An anonymous source at the hospital has alleged that the patients and medical staff at the hospital could be subject to COVID-19 testing. Speculation is rife that the hospital emergency unit closure is as a result of an unconfirmed report of six nurses testing positive for COVID-19 at the hospital. A message circulating on social media is calling for members of the public to inform the hospital if one visited the medical facility as this will assist with tracing. Chairman for Health, Safety and Security at Ethekwini Municipality, Des Moodley, told Tabloid Newspapers that fears regarding Coronavirus are growing. “This pandemic is no joke. The numbers are increasing daily, both positive cases and fatalities. It is a nightmare turning into reality. More so with infections now detected in three of our townships,” Moodley said. “Right now we need members of the public to stay inside their homes. That’s the safest place for you. You can help government by remaining indoors and self isolating even though you may not have the virus,” he added. Tabloid Media is awaiting comment from Bill Buchanan Home for the Aged and Netcare911 St Augustine’s Hospital. This is a developing story and updates will follow as we receive more information.