The Department of Basic Education  announced the phased opening of schools earlier today (Wednesday, 29 April). However, some teachers and parents, have shared their views saying that the phased opening may be a recipe for a logistical nightmare for the schools, that will be opening their doors to grade 7 and 12 pupils next week, and is not without risk. At least one principal has said that the department would need to provide hygiene packs and improve sanitation facilities as schools were struggling. Another teacher, who is not supportive of the reopening, said that it was “absolutely risky.” Director-General of the Department of Basic Education (DBE), Hubert Mathanzima Mweli, briefed the parliamentary committees earlier today via digital conference. He announced the strategies that will be implemented when schools reopen for teachers on Monday, 4 May and the proposed commencement of a phased reopening starting with grade 7 and 12 pupils on Wednesday, 6 May.  “Screening of  learners and educators will be done at reopening of schools starting with Grade 7 and Grade 12 with a temperature check.  Learners or staff members who present with a raised temperature will then be considered for isolation and testing,” said Mweli. Proposed return dates for learners are as follows: The new school calendar for learners is proposed as follows: Mweli has said that these dates are tentative and are subject to change as part of a draft amended school calendar. Overport Secondary School principal, Dr Shabier Osman, acknowledged the work put into creating the plan and supports the phased reopening completely. “Credit should be given to those who have worked tirelessly since the start of the lockdown to create a feasible plan for schools. However, the difficulty lies in the logistics of carrying out this plan,” said Osman. He said that schools were “were struggling and cannot do this alone”, therefore, there needs to be support by means of hygiene packs and the improvement of sanitation facilities. “Though we are absolutely grateful for this plan, logistically, it will be extremely challenging. On the brighter side, it will provide some relief to our grade 12 learners who have been on edge worrying about the effects coronavirus will have on their future,” said Osman. Devanya Larlchun, a high school teacher, was not supportive of the re-opening plan as she believed that it would only increase the risk of infection among the pupils.
“The reopening of schools is still absolutely risky. However, learners are extremely worried about missing out on their work. In the classroom, the learners have no sense of what social distancing is as they will be seeing their peers after weeks, it does spell disaster,” said Larlchun. Bilal Khan of the Orient School Watch group echoed Larlchun’s sentiments. “It’s a serious concern as young learners will not understand Covid-19 protocols, especially social distancing. Most school classrooms are over-crowded, how will social distancing be maintained in this situation?” The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (SADTU) has stressed a safety-first approach. “The first priority is the safety of all our learning institutions 
because we cannot afford to lose lives. Corpses can neither be taught 
nor teach. “SADTU is concerned about the safety of teachers, lecturers,  education support personnel and learners and students. Above all, we are  concerned about the readiness of the provincial departments with regard  to the availability of health and safety essentials that have to be put  in place in the learning institutions at least two weeks before any  activity can take place,” it said. The union said that it expects a number of safety measures to be put in place once teachers and students return to school. The department has announced that the phased reopening will still adhere to the lockdown regulations and will practice the following social distancing measures: • Physical distances in the classrooms to be maintained, including not more than two learners sharing a desk. • No hugging or handshaking and direct contact must be avoided. • Cloth masks are to be worn by pupils and teachers at all times. • There will be no mass public events, including sports, choir practices, festivals and Eisteddfods. • Extra classes should be arranged in small groups that maintain social distancing. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to make an announcement to the nation tomorrow (Thursday, 30 April).