Dr Zweli Mkhize, the Health Minister, accompanied by a team of experts, briefed the nation on South Africa’s response to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) epidemic, on Monday, 13 April. Dr Mkize said that the team was being led by world renowned, University of KwaZulu-Natal epidemiologist, Professor Salim Abdool Karim who is also Director of CAPRISA and Chair of the South African Ministerial Advisory Committee on Covid-19. Durban born, Professor Karim said that SA was on a similar trajectory as other countries in terms of its Covid-19 infection rate, until the national lockdown was implemented. “ In the initial period of infection both SA and the UK had similar trajectory in the rate of infection, however, after SA implemented the national lockdown on 26 March, its trajectory changed drastically as compared to the UK, there was a reduction in the infection rate until it reached a plateau,” said Professor Karim. He explained that Covid-19 cases have declined in the last two weeks while NHLS test numbers increased and that the first & second waves did not bridge spread effectively into the general community, as there was no exponential increase in cases.“ If community transmission is low, cases decline. If community transmission is increasing then cases will increase and exponential curve will start again, “explained Professor Karim. He said that SA has a unique epidemic trajectory which is due to curtailed community transmission from effective early interventions. The exponential curve is almost inevitable. Lockdown bought SA about four – six weeks’ time and will likely reduce peak case load. “SA cannot escape the worst of this epidemic. Not unless SA has a special protective factor not present anywhere else in the world. Our population will be at high risk again after the lockdown. Infectiousness period includes four-seven days before symptoms ie. people can spread it without knowing. The virus spreads too fast normally. Government interventions have slowed viral spread, the curve has been impacted and we have gained some time, “ added Professor Karim. Professor Karim explained that the delay is important as it gives SA time to flatten the curve. He said that SA has a unique component to its response as only SA has over 28 000 Community Health Workers (CHW) going house-to-house in vulnerable community for screening and testing to find cases. SA’s response to Covid-19: Stage 1: Preparation Community education, establishing lab capacity, surveillance Stage 2: Primary prevention Social distancing and hand-washing, closing schools and reduced gathering, close the borders to international travel Stage 3: Lockdown Intensifying curtailment of human interaction Stage 4: Surveillance & active case-finding Community response, door-to-door screening, testing, isolation and contact tracing Next stages of SAs response : Stage 5: Hotspots Follow the lockdown rules and monitor community transmission by average daily cases and community positivity/screened, surveillance to identify and intervene in hotspots, spatial monitoring of new cases, outbreak investigation and intervention teams Stage 6: Medical care (for the peak) Surveillance on case load & capacity, managing staff exposures and infections, building field hospitals for triage, expand ICU bed and ventilator numbers. Major concerns  are medical care response, poor health care access, deaths (NY) , an effective ambulance system, HIV+ (not on ART) and TB patients may increase severity, both Covid & Flu epidemics intermingled, need a voluntary partial lockdown until end September just for old people (>70 or >60) and those with co-morbidities to reduce exposure, field hospitals for triage, mainly in big cities, getting staff ready for the exponential curve, hospitals with makeshift ICUs, more ventilators and PPE Stage 7: Bereavement and aftermath Expanding burial capacity, regulations on funerals, managing psychological and social impact Stage 8: Ongoing vigilance/surveillance Monitoring Ab levels, administer vaccines, if available, ongoing surveillance for new cases, need to stay one step ahead of viral spread and not wait for patients to arrive in hospitals to act. Components to surveillance: Ongoing CHW house-to-house screening and testing especially in vulnerable communities, one day each month – health worker surveillance and national surveillance day for schools, mines, prisons & big companies. Self-taken swabs from a small sample of people in each setting. (Later to be changed to fingerprick). Community transmission levels will guide next steps and the lockdown. By 18 April, it will be known if community transmission interpretation is accurate. Professor Karim, FRS, is widely recognized for his scientific contributions to HIV prevention and treatment. He is Director of the Centre for the AIDS Program of Research in SA (CAPRISA) and Professor of Global Health in Epidemiology at Columbia University. He is also Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research) at UKZN and Associate Member of The Ragon Institute of Massachusetts General Hospital, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University. He has adjunct professorships at Cornell and Harvard universities. He has served as the President of the South African Medical Research Council. He is ranked among the World’s most cited scientists by Web of Science. He serves on the Boards of several journals, including the New England Journal of Medicine, Lancet Global Health, Lancet HIV and mBio. He is the Chair of the UNAIDS Scientific Expert Panel, WHO’s HIV Strategic and Technical Advisory Committee as well as the WHO TB-HIV Task Force and is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board for Global Health at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

Professor Karim’s many awards include the African Union’s “Kwame Nkrumah Award”, the most prestigious scientific award in Africa and the Canadian Gairdner Award. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society and member of the US National Academy of Medicine, the American Academy of Microbiology and the Association of American Physicians.