The Department of Health, together with the Department of Public Works have recently come up with a plan to utilise vacant buildings, sports fields and parking lots as back up for quarantine sites should the virus rapidly spread to other areas. Both the Departments will identify quarantine sites as a national measure to prepare themselves, should the need arise as a result of the rapid spread of the virus. Chairperson of the South African Muslim Network (SAMNET) and medical doctor, Dr Faisal Suliman said that we can expect that the health system will be overwhelmed very soon. “Given the socio-economic conditions and the fact that the virus is spreading pretty fast, we can expect that the health system will be overwhelmed very soon, therefore it is necessary to find places where step-down care can be given. This simply means that people who do not need ventilation and high intensive care can be managed so that hospital facilities are available for those in serious conditions,” said Suliman. Unfortunately, according to Suliman, this measure will only be coming into effect from around mid-May onward. “It will be necessary for the government to find, quickly renovate or fix and create hygienic and medically acceptable places, be it a warehouse or unused building in preparation for a peak in the number of cases of the virus,” he said.Former Acting Mayor and ward PR councillor, Fawzia Peer, supports this decision by both departments saying: “This is a positive move and we, as the community, need to support this decision completely.”However, Peer does advise the relevant departments must liaise with the communities in which these sites are identified as an educational measure and to also ensure that all precautionary measures are taken to prevent local transmission within the community that the site is situated in. “Our options are very limited and we have to think fast. Although there is quite a lot of work involved in identifying suitable quarantine sites, it is absolutely necessary for us to play our part in flattening the curve and ensuring that our people are taken care of,” said Peer. Suliman added that this measure should be welcomed by the public with good reasoning. “It is important that we rather be prepared and not end up suddenly having a need for it and not have anywhere to house the ill. That would be a failure on our part as human beings, as a government and as a part of the health industry,” he said.