The port of Durban was finally graced with the presence of the British transatlantic ocean liner, Queen Mary 2, yesterday (Tuesday, 31 March) and Dr Zweli Mkhize gave an important announcement about the MSC Orchestra Cruise Liners that left Durban in February and March to the Portuguese Island. After being denied access to the port the Queen Mary 2, had to dock on the outer anchorage of the port from Friday, 27 March. The liner, which had over 1200 crew members on board, among them six South Africans, had requested permission to enter the port to disembark the South African members, refuel the ship and replenish water and other supplies.  The ship had departed from Fremantle, Australia, on 16 March. Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize, released a statement which confirmed the docking of the vessel and had also come to the province to monitor the disembarkment, ensuring that all protocol was carried out. “On 27 March a cruise ship, The Queen Mary 2, docked in the outer anchorage of the Durban port of entry after being denied entry into the port. This was due to the fact that a number of passengers on board that ship had been reported to be exhibiting flu like symptoms,” said the Minister. Mkhize confirmed that a total of 26 people were tested for Covid-19 and all of them had tested negative. During the disembarkment, no foreign nationals were allowed to disembark the ship, following the guidelines of the lockdown. The six South African crew members were then transported to a quarantine facility in Durban. Meanwhile, Dr Mkhize also said that he had previously received reports of two confirmed Covid-19 cases that were on the MSC Cruises in February and March. The cases were from KZN and the Free State. Dr Mkhize’s very important announcement to the public was as follows: “In relation to the MSC Orchestra Cruise Liner that left Durban on 28 February to the Portuguese Island and returned on 2 March, and in relation to the second cruise with the same vessel on 13 March and returning on 16 March, if you were part of these cruises, please know that you are a contact and we are looking for you. Please make contact with the Departments of Health in KwaZulu-Natal and Free State.”