While police minister Bheki Cele has reiterated government’s decision to not allow the trading of alcohol and cigarettes, which have been deemed as non-essential services during lockdown, residents have found other means of fulfilling their cravings. To cope during the 21 day lockdown, people have started to brew homemade beer called Imfulamfula which is a mixture of different ingredients including bread, yeast, jungle oats and fruits amongst other ingredients, to get intoxicated. One of the areas where this practice has started is Siyathuthuka Informal Settlement in Sea Cow Lake, Durban. Residents of the area are raising concerns as people are seen in groups drinking homemade alcohol and roaming the streets. Khanyisile Mqushwana says that people continue to sit in groups and share drinking containers when they have been told to stay at home. “Every day you find people drinking and laughing as if nothing is happening. The same people, you will see on the streets walking up and down. There are children playing in the streets. This is a serious concern especially now with the spread of the coronavirus, you never know how and where one will get it,” Mqushwana said. She said that people don’t understand the seriousness of the situation. “When I was walking to the shop today, I saw a group of men sitting together, I couldn’t help but ask what they were doing there and the answer shocked me to the core. They said they were bored. People are dying and getting infected every day, and they are worried about being bored, aren’t they afraid of getting infected?” said Mqushwana.  According to Mqushwana, adults are not the only problem as children are constantly found on the streets as well as playing in groups. “I don’t know what needs to be done but this needs to stop because if one person gets infected, we are all doomed. This is a small settlement and we are living close to one another. Imagine what will happen if one person gets infected. They don’t understand the word social distancing and the seriousness of the situation,” she added. Area committee chairperson Innocent Mathaba said it was hard controlling people in informal settlements. “The issue of people consuming homemade beer has come to my attention and I will be addressing it with the police. The problem is that people just don’t listen. The lockdown regulations are there to protect them but instead they want to be outside and sit in groups doing God knows what. I am mostly worried because the numbers keep going up but people are not taking this seriously,” Mathaba said. Last week, the South African Drug Policy Initiative (SADPI) called for the unbanning of the sale of alcohol and tobacco saying it is harmful to people who suffer from substance abuse disorders.   The organization said although the decision to ban the sale of these two drugs was made with good intentions, there are two main reasons why it was not a good idea: “Firstly, this ad hoc law fails to adequately consider the harms that its enforcement will do to the many vulnerable individuals who suffer from substance abuse disorders and secondly,  those who have problematic drug use disorders are now having to break the law by acquiring them from illegal sources of drugs and run the risk of being arrested.” SADPI said in a statement.