The world as we know it will never be the same after the Covid 19 lockdowns have ended.  Almost every facet of our lives in regard to social interaction will change.  Long standing social traditions and customs will change. The obvious examples are in the way that we greet each other — handshakes, hugs and even shoulder and elbow brushing will be at a premium — and new forms of “social distancing”will emerge as part of our culture, not only in private spaces but also in work and public spaces, including sport. Sports fans of all persuasions, starved of live sport and wanting to break free from the shackles of the lockdown “imprisonment” cannot wait to be out in their regalia supporting their respective teams when a degree of normality in society eventually resumes.  However, we will all be faced with the new rules of social engagement and in particular this new term which has found its way into our lexicon in recent times – “social distancing”. When Kaizer Chiefs next play Orlando Pirates at the FNB Stadium will the stadium be full to its 94 736 person capacity or will authorities limit attendance to half capacity in order to maintain social distancing by leaving an empty seat between each fan? If so, will football fans adhere to this? Is this one of the solutions? What are the other solutions to maintaining social distancing among spectators at sporting events? Will there be a greater awareness and self-discipline by fans to maintain social distancing without the need for the authorities to monitor and police it at public events? These are the questions that authorities all over the world are presently grappling with in planning for the time when sporting and other spectator events resume.  New and innovative solutions to every single spectator sport are no doubt being interrogated by those who administer them at the moment. From the Professional Soccer League here in South Africa to sporting leagues and competitions all over the world, whether it is the English Premier League or Formula 1 motor racing, these issues are being discussed. The short term measure being contemplated by many sporting authorities and in fact already being introduced in some countries, is for certain sports events to take place without any spectators present and to rely on television coverage to take the game to fans. In Taiwan, for example, the government has already agreed to their professional baseball league resuming in strict closed stadium conditions. Starved of live sporting entertainment, this is sure to be a winner among sporting fans there and surely, sports administrators and TV networks in other countries will be watching this experiment with exceptionally keen interest to see whether this method of dealing with the present crisis is viable or not. This is obviously a temporary measure until governments are confident to allow public gatherings including being at sports events to take place. All professional sportsmen and women will tell you that performing their skills in front of crowds is one of the strongest motivations to perform and the bigger the crowd, the stronger the motivation. For many sports fans, whether one is a regular attendee at matches or just regular armchair supporter sitting at home in front of the TV, watching one’s favourite team playing in an empty stadium just will not carry the thrill and excitement that goes with a match being played before thousands of screaming and cheering spectators. For cricket fans, would it not be bizarre watching the IPL without spectators in the stands or the dancing girls performing their routines every time a boundary is hit or a wicket taken? This has no doubt been a huge contributory factor to the Indian Cricket Authorities deciding to postpone this year’s edition of the IPL indefinitely. When stadiums do eventually open up for spectator participation, we shall become part of a new social distancing culture that is emerging. This will be accompanied by control measures to regulate some of it as well. For the players themselves, celebrating goals or tries or wickets without the normal hugging, “high fives”, handshakes or other celebratory gestures that we take for granted, will take some adjusting to. What will it be like? Well, a glimpse of this can be taken from an incident that occurred this last weekend at a race meeting in Australia, where horseracing is still going on despite a partial lockdown. Jockey Tom Marquand was fined 2 000 Australian dollars (about R23 500) and groom Safid Alam, 500 Australian dollars (R5 875) for breaching coronavirus protocols put in place by the Australian horseracing authorities, when they celebrated the victory of their horse by briefly embracing each other after the race. Will similar protocols be introduced in other sports, such as football and cricket? Will doing so be regarded as a yellow card offence?  Forget Jurgen Klopp not being able to hug his players when they come off the field after he has substituted them, can you imagine the reactions of players, coaches and support staff when the final whistle at a cup final has been blown by the referee and their team has won? Will spectators (sitting one empty seat apart from each other) also be able to contain themselves? Full contact sports like rugby surely will have a problem. Scrums, rucks and mauls are part of the game. Touch rugby as an alternative is definitely not the solution to this problem for real rugby fans. The role of sport in society can never be undervalued. Its sociological value is immense and for the morale of communities in virtual imprisonment at present, any announcement in regard to the relaxation of restrictions to allow for the resumption of sport activities will no doubt be greeted with much relief and happiness by all when it does happen. The social distancing criteria that emerges with the resumption is going to change sport in ways that we could never imagine just a month ago.