The city of Newcastle, is home to a diverse cross section of people. Black, White, Indian, Nigerian, Chinese and Portuguese.Long before the outbreak of COVID-19, everyone got along. Residents would flock to local Chinese factories to buy branded clothing which were always affordable and in good quality.If you had a birthday party or function, one would always go to a popular local Chinese store where you could buy anything from unique party items to James Bond type gadgets. The stores were always filled with parents and their children buying or simply browsing.Then in December, things started to slowly change…. The world started to get news about a virus that started in China, in the now notorious wet market of Wuhan.At the time it was not such as concern, as people around the world were rarely exposed to what really goes on in these markets.Exotic animals being caged and cut while still alive. Meerkats, up to hundreds at a time stuffed into tiny cages without any space for them to move. The look in the eyes of these animals was one of death and fear, as one BBC reporter who went under cover described it. The stench is unbearable to the human sense of smell.Yet the market still went on.As days passed, the infection spread worldwide and we are now sitting with a worldwide pandemic with over 2 million infections and more that 125 000 people dead.National lockdowns and state of emergencies have been declared. Essential workers have been working tirelessly, fighting against time, trying to come up with a vaccine as they try desperately to flatten the curve.Mass graves are now a reality. So who, apart from the coronavirus patients and essential workers suffer the most?Alleen Ronnel, a Chinese woman who has been living in Newcastle with her family for four years says that due to her being Chinese people have been distancing themselves from her and her family.“You see them in grocery stores, looking at you and whispering. Just because I am Chinese, it does not mean that I carrying the coronavirus,” says an angry Ronnel.“When I go out into public places, we adhere to all the precautionary measures but still we get side glances and snickered at. In lines people will rather go to the next till than stand in line behind us. If we are seen in a certain aisle, people quickly make u-turns and make as if they have to go else where.” The Newcastle Mayor, Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba has condemned such behaviour asking all citizens to behave in a respectful manner as we fight this virus.Chairperson of the Newcastle Residents Forum, Mr Khumalo, has also spoken out about such behaviour.“We cannot say that a person has the virus due to their appearance or where they are from. We are a loving town, let us not succumb to such pettiness like bullies in school. We are adults. We can all take our own precautionary measures to flatten the curve. This stigma stops with us as individuals.’ Said Mr Khumalo. A resident who did not want to be named reiterated an incident that took place at a local grocery store. He was passing the entrance whilst looking for parking when he noticed a Chinese couple standing alone. There was a long queue of people all around them waiting to get into the store. The people standing in line stood a good few metres away from the Chinese couple. As soon as the store doors were opened, the rest of the line rushed past the couple leaving them flabbergasted as to where everyone had all of a sudden come from. When the Newcastle Express asked Aileen if she had a message for her fellow residents, she had this to say.  “ I watched a movie once, so I will change the words to suite my situation. Hi, my name is Allen Ronnel, I am Chinese and I do not have COVID-19.