Former Ladysmith resident and Egerton Primary School, Ashika Abrahamse, sent greetings from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. She and her family are presently in lockdown in the country running into almost 36 days. “We are currently under the Movement Control Order, which is just a more diplomatic way of saying lockdown.  The order is expected to be lifted on 28 April, but this is doubtful since the numbers of affected people are growing daily, with no end in sight,” said Abrahamse. She said that it was strange to see a once bustling city eerily quiet. The police and the army have blocked off all major roads, and a person is only allowed through if you have a valid permit. One person per household is allowed to leave for essential items. “You cannot be outside without a mask, and your temperature is taken before you enter any shop or bank,” said Abrahamse, in an on line interview with the Ladysmith Herald.
 
The Malaysian government has been dealing with the pandemic very effectively, and so far the health services have been coping well. There are still people who defy the control order, but they were swiftly dealt with. “The people of Malaysia are warm and friendly, and so far all foreigners have been treated really well. Buildings which have been put under an enhanced order have been receiving two free meals a day, because these buildings house mostly foreigners,” she said. Living in an apartment on the ninth floor becomes frustrating at times for the family in such confines. “I am a teacher at an international school. I am currently teaching a full day online. When I am not teaching then I am marking assignments, or preparing lessons for the next day. Netflix has become my new best friend, night after night, series upon series,” said Abrahamse. She said that her husband Theunis has been cooking and cleaning the apartment. She says that she considers herself “an extremly lucky woman”. He daughter Sherona, who is in year nine, keeps busy with online lessons, and, of course “tik-tok”. “It is important for all, including friends and family that still live in Ladysmith, to be resilient at this time because that will determine how people globally will live and how they will emerge from this,” said Abrahamse. “This global pandemic has affected everyone around the world. The safest place for us is behind closed doors. You would be very selfish if you ignored the lockdown because you are healthy and strong. Think of your loved ones, especially the elderly. Covid-19 is an invisible threat, and it does not discriminate based on race, religion, gender or age. “I wish my family and friends a safe time during their lock down, please adhere to these regulations and may God bless you all and keep you safe,” said Abrahamse.