Residents of Glenwood, Musgrave and Umbilo were left without electricity for days on end resulting in a flood of complaints and frustrating phone calls to the electricity department, without answers. The municipality later blamed the outage on hot and humid weather. eThekwini municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said in response: “The eThekwini electricity unit has been inundated with network faults due to extremely hot and humid weather conditions. “In some instances, there are repeated faults on the same network such as the cable fault between Glenwood major and Hunt Road that has failed yet again.” Mayisela urged the residents to bear with the municipality as it is going through a difficulty. “We currently have 20 substations in Musgrave covering the Botanic, Ritson, Mansfield, and all the way towards Currie Road. We further have an additional 23 mini substations in Glenwood extending from Bulwer towards Lancers Road, our staff are currently on site working to restore supply as soon as possible,” said Mayisela. Heather Rorick, chairperson of the Umbilo Community Policing Forum and Bulwer Urban Safety and Regeneration Forum, said: “When residents have financial problems and are battling to pay their electricity bill, eThekwini electricity does not bare with the people. “So much food is getting wasted, which is costing residents who are already on a tight budget, so much more money. Some do not even have the money to replace the groceries and meat they bought for the month,” said Rorick. “The sickly are battling in this heat, others have to use oxygen, their health may not keep having patience. Our biggest issues are that we were told that the big new substation built corner of Clark and Bulwer roads would ease the problems of all the little substations, yet a few years down the line, this substation is still not operational,” said Rorick. She said that the residents in Glenwood and surround areas have been patient long enough. “There cannot just be excuse after excuse. Some residents were off for over 48 hours or so, how are they expected to have patience. Some are still having their electricity going on and off. This is not even counting all the loadshedding we have been going through,” she said. Besides the electricity problems, Rorick said that Glenwood and Umbilo still have a lot of service delivery issues at hand. She said she was trying to get to speak to someone senior in the municipality, someone who will be willing to meet and allow her to raise these issues “of great concern”. eThekwini Secure deputy chairperson, Zain Soosiwala, said that the organisation has been inundated with calls to seek help to resolve the power outage problem. He said that residents are getting no answers to what exactly the problem might be. “As a community based organisation, we speak to issues of service delivery and interact with several structures of the municipality. “We have sent several emails to the relevant departments reporting the matter on behalf of the community, asking for answer and for a sustainable solution. Be rest assured that we have taken up the cause on your behalf,” said Soosiwala.