Getting married soon? What spouses need to know about their credit rating? When you get married, it does not mean your credit score and that of your spouse will automatically “merge”.The changes only come after you have got married, and you decide to jointly apply for credit products together like a loan or a credit card. At this point, credit providers will look at both of your incomes, which may make it easier to apply for loans. They will also look at both of your credit scores, and if one of you has a bad credit history, there’s a chance your application won’t be approved or they may charge a higher interest rate. Further, if you and your spouse have different credit scores, you will have a few decisions to make around how you want to handle applying for credit and loans, depending on your financial situation and priorities. For For instance, will the spouse with the better credit score make the applications?Or Will you apply jointly and accept higher interest rates to improve the other spouse’s score Does marriage impact my credit rating? Your marriage contract does not affect your credit rating, or how you are assessed for a loan. However, one should pay attention to who is responsible for the debt. If you are married in community of property, it means you and your partner are equally and fully responsible for any debts incurred, while you are married. In other words, if you can’t pay your debts, your creditors can legally recover the money from your spouse. On the other hand, if you have an ante-nuptial contract, only the primary account holder is legally responsible for paying any debts.Does divorce make a difference?When you co-sign on a loan or a credit card with your spouse, you take on legal responsibility for that account, and it acts as your obligation on your credit report. Once the account is opened, it’s particularly difficult to remove a co-signer off the loan. The person keeping the account will need to show the bank that they are able to take over the loan, or close it, to end the co-signing agreement. Not even a divorce judgment will relieve you of your liability to the creditor, unless the creditor themselves releases you from that account. If we have joint credit, how is this recorded in a credit bureau?A joint account is reflected on the credit records of both you and your spouse. The following information is kept on the joint account until it is settled: • The type of account • The people responsible for the debt • Your opening balance • Your current balance • The number of installments • Installment amount and repayment  frequency     • Months in arrears and overdue balance. What if we miss a joint credit payment? If you default on a joint account payment, this information will reflect as a default or judgement on both of your credit records. If your spouse missed payments or defaulted on the loan, your credit reports will be affected and the creditor may require you to settle the debt.If you have a joint loan, or have co-signed on a loan, you should check your credit reports regularly to see how the other person is maintaining the account. That way, you can address any potential problems early to avoid an issue on your own credit rating down the line. What if I sign as a guarantor, or co-sign, for my spouse? You need to be very clear on what you are getting into. When you co-sign on a loan or a credit card, you take on legal responsibility for that account, and it appears as your obligation on your credit report.  If your spouse misses payments or defaults on the loan, your credit reports will be affected and the creditor may require YOU to settle the debt. So what can you do to protect yourself? If you have a joint loan, or have co-signed on a loan, check your credit reports from credit bureaus regularly to see how the other person is maintaining the account. That way, you can address any possible problems timely to avoid an issue on your own credit rating down the line. Should you require assistance in regards to the above, kindly contact our office to set up an     appointment in which the relevant steps required in relation thereto, will be discussed in detail. Disclaimer: This article is correct as at the time of going to press, however, it is no substitute for a consultation with an attorney. TEL: 031 402 0356  EMAIL: luckylaw@rocketmail.com / conveyancing.luckylaw@gmail.com or  litigation.luckylaw@gmail.com