Mixing his unique style and mind blowing vocal abilities, Bob Ffole is no stranger to the stage. He was a lead singer of the former band Trippple Bypass. Ffole started his solo career under the Ginger Rock Flag. The Rock artist released his first Afrikaans album in March 2019. He will be collaborating with old friends Francois van Coke and Jack Parow as guest artist on various events held by the promotion company throughout South Africa. Ffole recently joined forces with the Legendary Richard van der Westhuizen and pulled a new rock Jacket over the ” Ballade vir n enkeling” song well-known for the 80’s TV series. Tabloid Newspapers had a chat with Ffole about his journey in the music industry. Tabloid Newspaper (TN): Describe Bob Ffole in three words?Bob Ffole (BF): Honest, bright and deliberate. TN: What inspires your line of work?BF: To communicate in the universal language that sets an emotional snapshot of particular moments in life. TN: What did you want to be when you grew up?BF: The best “me” TN: Do you have any regrets about where you are in life?BF: No, when I give myself permission to communicate what matters I have peace despite rejection or disapproval. That is why my motto in life is “I give my all, that all I have to give.” TN:Tell us a little bit about your career under Ginger Rock Flag?BF: That is where my solo career began. I’m so blessed to be under the Ginger rock flag. As a person Ginger became a friend and we understand one another to such an extent that I trust her with my career and secrets. TN: Your 2019 unforgettable moment is?BF: I have been blessed with so many memorable moments for the 2019 season of my life, but the one that most definitely stood out was my first live television interview and performance on KykNet’s well-known “Toks and Tjops” programme and my nomination for best Afrikaans Rock Album at the AITSA Afrikaans awards. One I should mention also was the fact that I had the pleasure to start working with the legendary Lidia Winchester as my PR. TN: If you can change one thing in the music industry, what would it be?BF: Auto tune – hearing someone’s actual singing voice is a rare thing these days. Recorded acts don’t justify artist when performing live. TN: You released an Afrikaans album in March 2019, what were the challenges while recording?BF: Time was my only challenge as I have a very demanding job that I juggle between my music career and family life. TN: What are your favourite things about yourself?BF: I understand how precious time is, I follow my heart and believe in myself and look for positivity in all things. TN: What aspect of your life needs tremendous improvement?BF: Time management – organise and plan how long I spend on specific activities. TN: One thing you know now that you wish you had known as a kid?BF: That your own beliefs are more important than other’s judgements. TN: You recently joined forces with the legendary Richard van der Westhuizen, tell us about that?BF: I met Richard at one of my shows when Ginger introduced us. He was overwhelmed with my voice and asked if we can do a remake of the song “Ballade vir ‘n Enkeling” in a Rock and Roll vibe. Since then, we did many shows together and became good friends. It was such an honour to be working with such a legend. TN: What advice can you share with upcoming musicians?BF: It’s crucial to set balance, realistic but challenging goals to make any method work, never give up.