When Ashleigh Nanni, a surfer, heard that the car guards on Durban’s beachfront had no food or accommodation this year due to the shelters being full, she formed a charity organisation called S.E.A (Surfers Empathy Act). The organisation is dedicated to feeding and caring for the homeless on Durban’s beachfront – providing basic needs, food and support. Nanni has already garnered support from her local surf group who also share her passion for making a difference in the lives of the needy and giving back to the Durban community that they love. The first feeding initiative took place on Sunday morning, 26 January and the number of homeless people being fed has grown from 10 to 40.Speaking to Springfield Weekly Gazette, Nanni explained that after she put out a request on social media she received donated items such as clothing, baby food and formula, food items and toiletries from surfers and locals. Volunteers also assisted with making sandwiches with delicious toppings that was distributed on Sunday as a “test run”.“It worked wonderfully and we had some very happy faces. I appreciate all the help I received, “said Nanni. She explained that more donations and sponsors are needed “Every little bit counts including clothes, food or toiletries makes a massive difference to the lives of those we care for, ” said Nanni.The 24-year-old Durban North resident is a regular surfer on Durban’s beach front. When she is not surfing she is busy studying and is also an intern teacher at a local school. Nanni said that when she saw families and children sleeping in the parking lots she knew she had to do something. “The local car guards told me that the shelters are full and they are now sleeping on the streets.Their food get stolen by thieves who beat them for it and the children get hurt. It’s not safe and they are not getting proper nutrition. I feel privileged to be able to surf on Durban’s beaches and have basic facilities like a shower etc.“I feel that all lives matter. Giving back to the community and the people of Durban is what I love doing. The sense of community and caring is so rewarding, ” said Nanni. The next sandwich run takes place on Sunday, 2 February at 8 am on Durban’s North Beach. For more information on joining or donating to S.E.A, contact ashleighnanni@gmail.com or Facebook : SEA seacharity.