The family of murdered Phoenix man, Bradley Hiralal, who was gunned down in a hail of bullets together with Bilquees Hussain in uMhlanga, recently, said they will not rest until they get justice against their loved one’s murderer and anyone who is harbouring the fugitive responsible for the cold-blooded killings. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Hiralal’s brother, Denver said that his family has been left shattered by Bradley’s killing. “We are angry and saddened by the manner in which Bradley was snatched from us. His life ended so callously, so violently,” Denver added. Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) responded to the scene and RUSA head, Prem Balram, said that a woman was killed and a man succumbed to his injuries in hospital following a drive by shooting on uMhlanga Rocks Drive. The Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) Operations Centre received multiple calls from the public reporting the shooting. On arrival paramedics from a private ambulance service were treating a man for a gunshot wound to the head. A female who was the front passenger in a black convertible BMW was killed in the shooting,” Balram said. He added that it is alleged that the victims were travelling on uMhlanga Rocks Drive towards Gateway Shopping Centre when a second black BMW drove up on the passenger side of the victims’ vehicle. “The occupants of the BMW opened fire on the victims vehicle before it sped off. The victims’ vehicle crashed at the traffic circle before coming to a stop,” Balram said. Hussain hailed from Newlands West and was a mother of two. KZN Police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said that charges of murder are being investigated by Durban North SAPs. “It is alleged that at 1:20pm, two vehicles were seen were travelling at a high speed on uMhlanga Rocks Drive in La Lucia Ridge, travelling from east to west, when the occupants of one vehicle opened fire at the other vehicle. A woman believed to be in her 30s sustained gunshot wounds and was declared dead at the scene. A man was taken to hospital for medical attention where he later died. The motive for the attack is yet to be established as investigations are on-going. We are appealing to anyone who might have information about the suspects involved to contact their local police or CrimeStop on 08600 10111,” Naicker said. Denver added: “My brother Bradley was a kind-hearted and good person. He was loved much. People shared such wonderful stories about him at his funeral. He had a soft heart and his murder was unnecessary.We appeal to the man mentioned on social media who is alleged to be linked to my brother and the female’s murder to come forward and speak to police. If you are innocent, then why are you in hiding? We appeal to those people who are harbouring the alleged suspect, to speak out. Families are in pain and have suffered great losses. We need the truth to be told.” Meanwhile, Hussain’s sister, Noorie Jacobs took to Facebook where she heartbreakingly shared her grief over her sister’s death and posted, “My dearest baby sister! I don’t know what to say. I’ve been blessed to have you in my life. We have so many beautiful memories that we shared. May God grant your children all the strength they need. A mother is irreplaceable. I will always love you.”