It has been more than a week since the death of a Tromplen Place man who received a deadly beating, at the hands of two assailants and no arrests have been made as the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) await the post mortem results, since a policeman has been implicated in the fatal assault. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said: “Woolaganathan Govinden, 40, was allegedly assaulted on 31 December 2019 at about 11pm in his neighbourhood at Tromplen Place, Northcroft. His sister was made aware of the assault after she visited Govinden at his home and found that he was quite seriously injured. She said that the complainant arranged for paramedics and her brother (Woolaganthan) to be conveyed to Entabeni Hospital where he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The sister was under the impression that her brother will progress but unfortunately his condition deteriorated and he died on 11 January 2020. The deceased’s sister alleged that the deceased had been assaulted by known persons of which one person was a police officer. IPID was informed and no arrests have been made at this stage as IPID is investigating further,” said Naidoo. Naidoo said that a minor eye-witness alleges that on the night in question she went to the tuckshop and on her way back she noticed one of the alleged assailants embroiled in a domestic problem with his wife. “She further noticed that Govinden tried to intervene and calm the situation but the suspect started to assault the victim and his friend also joined in the beating. The victim was assaulted with clenched fists, booted feet and neck-locks. They then left the deceased lying on the road where he was eventually helped and taken to his home,” Cpt Naidoo said. Spokesperson for IPID, Sontaga Seisa said they were informed of the incident and reported that they were waiting for the post mortem to be conducted on the body to ascertain the cause of death. Seisa said no arrests were made as the matter was still with police.