Havenside resident, Pat Naicker, has been left counting the costs of him adopting a plot of land, next to his property. Naicker was recently slapped with a R5 000 fine by officials from the eThekwini Parks and Recreation Unit, for sprucing the area up and installing a staircase leading to a nearby sports ground. Alongside the cement stairs, there was also a drainage pipe installed by Naicker and his neighbor, Charles Izatt. “We were fed up with our homes being constantly flooded and the relevant authorities not doing anything about it, so we decided to do something ourselves,” Naicker said. The route cause of the flooding is the open space behind their properties, which sloped towards their homes. This resulted in stormwater passing through and under their buildings causing extensive damage after heavy rains. “This has been happening since 1987 and the cost to repair and replace furniture since then is just over R220 000, for both residences,” Naicker added. Due to mounting costs, the neighbours, Naicker and Izatt, approached ward 69 Councillour, Ganas Govender, for permission to adopt the land. With permission granted, in December, they installed a drainage system to direct the stormwater to the road. However, Naicker was issued a R5 000 fine, for excavating the land using heavy machinery.  Naicker said: “Last week councilor Govender facilitated a meeting with myself, Charles, parks and law enforcement in an attempt to have the fine revoked, as the decision to fine me lacked common sense. Parks manager, Sebastian, said that stormwater that enters our property is an act of God and that we must put preventative measures inside our properties. He also stated that if we wanted to install a drainage system on council property, we should have requested council intervention.” Naicker added: “Parks and law enforcement should focus on illegal dumping, as Chatsworth is a dumpsite. Residents like us should be encouraged and supported by council as our actions reduce their maintenance costs.”When The Chatsworth Tabloid approached Cllr Govender for a comment, he confirmed granting Naicker and Izzat permission to adopt the land. He said: “Currently there are hundreds of acres of open space in this city, that has over grown bushes and grass of which the City’s Parks and Garden Department cannot keep-up with maintenance. In most cases these bushes are so over grown that it is now being used by criminals and drug users.He added: “In this case of Mr Naicker and Izatt, during the heavy rains their homes get flooded, due to stormwater running from a sports field into their homes causing much damage and the municipality is aware of this complaint. Naicker’s home insurance will no more assist him till the municipality sorts out their drainage, to avoid stormwater from entering into his home. The municipality is aware of this problem but chooses to do nothing to assist this family. Govender said he was escalating the matter and the issue of a fine to municipal officials.“There are many open spaces that are being illegally used, even against by-laws by residents, including residents that do not live in the ward, and the municipality does not act in those events, but will act in this case when a resident is in fact assisting the municipality by developing and maintaining municipality open space. Parks department responded by asking him to remove what he did on the open space and makes reference to bylaws,” he added. The matter has also been taken up by the Havenside Civic Association. The chairman of the association, Mubarak Mohamed said: “We are are busy liaising with the relevant authorities and we will revert to Mr Naicker and Izzat, as soon as possible.” A query was sent to the eThekwini Municipality, they had yet to respond by the time of print.