This week social media was abuzz with claims of animal negligence at the Mitchell’s Park zoo. On Thursday, 16 January, a delegation made up of councillors from the DA Community Services Committee: Ernest Smith – ward 27, Gavin Hegter – Ward 64, Nicole Bollman – Ward 35, Mmabatho Tembe – DA Whip Community Services Committee , Patrick Dlamini – secretary and Sean McCormick -Metro Park Trust did a walkabout at the Mitchells Park Zoo to ascertain whether the allegations on social media were true. Some of the allegations on social media were: 
Algae growing in the turtle pond, the state of the toilets, birds are not in the resting box, animals are stressed, the enclosures are dirty and stink, the pond water is green, animals that cannot be kept in solitude are kept in solitude , hornbull birds carrying dead babies, the cages are dirty, the walk ways are fifthly,  dead birds and birds dying with no care , wound on the white rhea’s neck. On the walkabout, the Committee found that the pond appeared to have been recently cleaned and the water seemed fresh, the toilets are functioning however it needs some renovations, a bit of TLC and attention. The general upkeep of the zoo was clean, the animals did not seem stressed, dying or dead and the wound on the female white rhea’s neck which was healing, appeared to have been made by the male during mating season. The Committee found the following needs attention: 
Parrots, Macaw and Cockatoo – cages and water are clean, however they are intelligent birds and need stimulation . A horse was lying on its side with its head on the ground – in the hot sun, the pool pump need to be fixed,  the roof of the male toilet need maintenance, the general infrastructure and minor day to day maintenance is required and there were odd pile of cuttings from trees McCormick said, “The zoo is in a pretty good state. In the Parks monthly meetings with eThekweni management, they can shortlist areas where additional funds are required and the Trust will look at it. ” ” The public are paying to see the zoo. The staff should take a moment to think about putting themselves in the shoes of the public. ” Councillor Smith suggested that the Trust designate some time to do monthly walkabouts at the Park. Councillor Hegter said, ” The walkabout was definitely needed. He advised that the Trust assist with funding instead of the Park waiting for the supply chain management process. He further advised that the zoo get the advice from Umgeni Bird Park as they have the expertise with birds. The Committee said that that they will follow up on issues raised with the Parks senior management. ” We cannot let this place fail. This is the start of an ongoing process to engage the zoo officials, ” concluded Smith Meanwhile,  the SPCA released a statement on Facebook as follows: ” We have investigated Mitchell Park Zoo, any welfare concerns will be addressed directly with the park and followed up on. In the meantime the animals all have food, shelter and water and no animals were needing urgent veterinary care.” The eThekwini Municipality have not responded yet.