Messages of condolences are still pouring in following the death of Durban’s much loved music legend, Steve Fataar who passed away at his Sydenham home in the early hours of Saturday morning, 18 January.The 76-year-old talented icon had played his usual set on Friday night at a local restaurant called Zack’s in Windemere. It is believed that he died of lung complications. Fataar was buried on Saturday night. He was well known in Durban’s local scenes. He is survived by his wife Marianne and five children.Pierre Gentle, the manager of Zack’s said that Fataar had played at the restaurant for over 10 years and was like family to him. He said that Fataar was popular and had many friends. “I’m in shock. He left a huge void. He was a wonderful human being who helped many young musicians with musical advice, like how to play in front of a crowd,” said Gentle.  He said that Fataar will be remembered for his famous catch phrase, “You don’t stop playing when you get old, you get old when you stop playing.”Dumisani Dera, the manager on duty at Zacks on Friday night, said that Fataar played very well that night and was in top spirits. “Around 12.30am he called me to take photos with him. Afterwards, he came to my office and insisted that I receive the photo from him before he leaves. He was a lovely, humble person who was always happy,” said Dera. Dera’s fond memory of Fataar is when he was playing his guitar and inviting musicians to join him. “He loved to give young musicians a chance to play or sing with him. He was always showing me how he played his music,” said Dera.  In the 1960s, Fataar started a rock band with his two brothers Ricky and Endries. The band was called ‘The Flames’ and shot to international fame, with their version of the song ‘For Your Precious Love’. After playing to fans of all races in what was then Apartheid South Africa and also overseas, the band broke up in 1970. Fans took to social media with an outpouring of grief at the death of their beloved icon. Just broken….. , said his daughter Zanine Sewell (with five broken hearts emojii’s), International artist Nanda Soobben, told The Glenwood Weekly Gazette that he was a teenager when the Flames were playing.  “I did a cartoon of Fataar when he was charged under the Immorality Act for dating a “White” girl. In the cartoon, Soobben used the words from The Flames famous number one hit ‘For Your Precious Love’ which were, “I could climb the highest mountains and swim the deepest sea.”Soobben said that the Immorality Act was represented by the highest mountain and the deepest ocean which was a reminder of segregation, indignation and humiliation. Fataar  had kept the cartoon in a plastic envelope for 30 years, which he then took to Soobben. The cartoon was used in an exhibition.“The Flames was one of the top bands in the world and in South Africa, at the time. Non-Whites were seen as inferior and we looked up to Fataar and the Flames for validation and confidence. He was down to earth and a rock star, unlike others, who seemed untouchable.” said Soobben. Sandy Bigara, a musician, said that in 2011, Fataar stepped into her life as a father figure when he heard that she had suffered a massive vocal injury. He encouraged and uplifted her which pushed her to heal and sing again. “I’m so grateful for this incredible human being that I got to call my musical father. He was an angel on this earth,” said Bigara.  As a tribute to Fataar, a “memorial table” will be set up at Zack’s, in Fataars special corner for this Friday, 24 January. A candle will be burning from 6pm and friends are invited to bring items for the table like candles, flowers or pictures etc. Some of Fataars musical family will be playing pure acoustic music. The family is planning a tribute to Fataar’s life which will be announced shortly.