After 40 years of service at the Durban Metro, Captain Robby Mahabeer bows out.  Mahabeer, 60, told The Springfield Weekly Gazette that he had a good experience in his years of dealing with crime, training women and men in combat, taking part at the United States of America Secret Service, being part of Dragon Force Agencies and being trained by Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI ) and the South African Police Services to name a few. He said that since he has retired, he will now focus on teaching the public and organisations how to defend themselves through his academy Cops Combat Academy. He hopes to make a positive impact to many citizens in communities across Durban. “Self defence is a life skill that all citizens should learn. We have had many cases where women have been raped and killed. Gender- based violence has increased. Imagine if theses women knew how to fight back, maybe, many would still be alive,” he said. The former cop might have retired from the police service but he is still active in the service of others and saving lives. He believes the world needs action and not motivation. “The idea of this academy is to change fear into courage. The type of training I provide is called unarmed combat which is ran under Cops Combat Academy. The academy will make changes in millions of people’s lives in the country,” he said. Mahabeer said that even though he trains people and organisations in their comfort space, he does have classes in Overport on Monday and Tuesday. The classes are for men, women and children. Mahabeer trains 25 times a week with his daughter who is a female instructor and  permanently employed in a chemistry sector. ” I also work with my wife Navada who helps with admin and other four instructors including my two sons,” he said. Some of the organisations and schools he currently works with are Berea West Secondary School and Bonela Senior Citizens along with many other private organisations. “The feedback that I get is exciting. I feels good to help elders in the community and young children. It is important that they learn how to defend themselves as no one in the community is helping them,” he added. For more information, Mahabeer can be contacted on 083 560 0599  or copsacademysa@gmail.com.