Government’s plans to strip school governing bodies (SGBs) of the power to appoint principals and deputy principals is being resisted by SGBs, teacher unions and others. At the centre of the feud is the draft Basic Education Laws Amendment Bill which Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga and various stakeholders are expected discuss in the coming weeks.Apart from the appointment of principals and deputy principals, the bill (when passed in Parliament) will hand control to the department to determine the language policy at schools.Matakanye Matakanya, the National Association of Schools Governing Bodies general secretary, claimed that there would be  dire consequences if communities were denied the right to have a say in the appointments. “We will not let that happen. The department is taking us back to the apartheid era where principals, were imposed on the community,” said Matakanya. Kwa-Zulu Natal Education Department spokesperson, Muzi Mahlambi, said MEC Kwazi Mshengu believed some of the powers delegated to SGBs needed to be changed. “Among other concerns is that SGBs are involved in the fixing of posts.” Premier Sihle Zikalala, said at the top matriculants of 2019 function, at the ICC in Durban that the bill sought to address chaos and corruption over school posts. “Not everyone in the SGB’s understands education and its changing dynamics. This contributes to chaos. We need to look at this issue carefully because it impacts on the management of schools,” he said. The SA Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) is also against the move. Nomarashiya Caluza. Sadtu’s general secretary, said not all members of the SGBs are illiterate and clueless about education.”There are many SGB members who are highly qualified in various fields. We want the status quo to continue,” said Caluza. Thirona Moodley, spokesperson for the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA also rejected the bill. “A school serves a particular community and belongs to the community. A lot has gone wrong, yes, but a lot has gone right,” said Moodley.