A Phoenix son is vehemently refuting claims that he and his immediate family neglected, starved and beat his 77-year-old father, Govindsamy Reddy of Rockford, ultimately leading to his death more than a week ago. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid,  an emotional Robbie Reddy said as an only child, he is being deprived of his right to mourn his deceased dad because of all the scandalous stories being fabricated about him and his wife and sons. According to the deceased grandfather’s nephew, Luke Naidoo, the ailing pensioner was alleged to have been suffering the effects of a stroke for the past seven months which rendered the loss of his speech and affected his mobility.
In an interview with the Phoenix Tabloid, Naidoo said, “We lost a beloved father, uncle, grandfather who was grossly abused for approximately seven months since he suffered a stroke from his mouth down to his leg on his left side. He was unable to speak since that time. His son, grandsons and daughter-in-law kept him under lock and key, according to letters written by my uncle.
My uncle wrote notes and threw them from his window. The notes were found by the neighbours and handed over to a family member whom it was addressed to.” Reddy claims his father was an alcoholic and gave his mum a very hard time. “He (Govindsamy) was diagnosed with alcohol poisoning and not a stroke. Due to my father’s diagnosis, he was shaking a lot and could not have written the letters. The letters have been fabricated. 
My father wasn’t eating as he used to before his condition. My wife used to sit my dad down and shave as well as trim his beard. We cleaned his room regularly and he was never neglected,” Reddy said. Naidoo said that he had contacted the Durban Association for the Aged (DAFTA) mid last year to intervene in the matter. “An employee from DAFTA conducted some visits at my uncle’s home and said they could not remove him after I requested feedback from her. I informed her that my uncle hadn’t been bathing, shaving and was urinating in his bed – his clothes were constantly smelling of urine,” said Naidoo. Following several failed attempts to offer assistance and medical care to Govindsamy, the elderly man demised at his home. Naidoo proceeded to Phoenix SAPS where he informed police of the horrific situation and the circumstances surrounding his uncle’s death. A post mortem was requested and an inquest was being investigated after pictures of the deceased was viewed by police.  Naidoo said, “I really do not understand how the post mortem results just stated death by natural cause.” Reddy said, “The people who are making all these stories about me are the very same people who used to abuse my dad’s grant money. I just lost my dad and was never given the chance to mourn him instead people forced the issue of him getting cut up which really affected me. I’m the only child my dad ever had, I would never do any harm to my dad and never expected my dad to be taken this way from me. I miss him so much and I can’t believe that I’m being blamed for his death. A post mortem was done and results showed that he died of natural causes yet there are people who are saying that the doctors and law are wrong. One of these days, I’m going to crash because I can’t bear everything that’s happening to me,” said a hysterical Reddy who claims he has a heart condition. Naidoo said, “I found the results of the post mortem to be very strange as just looking at the injuries on my uncle’s body spoke volumes. My uncle’s body clearly indicated that he was dehydrated, starved, suffered from malnutrition and that he was also grossly abused and had physical wounds to prove it. His ribs were protruding and his stomach was sunken. The wounds to the head and eye were also very outstanding.” Phoenix SAPS communications officer Cpt L Naidoo confirmed that an inquest case was registered.