KZN police officers have been collecting bodies from crime scenes and dropping them off at local mortuary offices in Magwaza Maphalala (former -Gale) Street Medico-Legal Mortuary due to an ongoing go-slow by officials from the Department of Health. The officials have been embarking on the go slow since 2019, after MEC for Health Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu gave then an ultimatum to return to work, or risk the implementation of a court order that could lead to their dismissal. One of the officials, who wished not to be named, said they understand that police have been doing their jobs but they too, need the Department of Health to do justice to them.  KZN Department of Health Spokesperson, Noluthando Nkosi said police must contact district management if there are any delays in picking up the deceased.”Previously, SAPS was responsible for collecting corpses, until the department’s Forensic Pathology Services took over, said Nkosi. She further said that the department believes there is going to be significant improvements to the management and functioning of Forensic Pathology Services at eThekwini District once the issues in Magwaza Maphalala Street Medico-Legal Mortuary have been resolved.Ethekwini Cluster Community policing forum Chairperson, Imtiaz, Syed said in 2018 he had seen police transporting bodies of crash victims in the back of police vans to mortuaries.  “We have heard of contingency plans being implemented but unaware of what those plans are.” He questions how a civilised society cannot even understand the impact of not giving dignity to the dead and that why is this even a discussion.“The mortuary staff has had grievances since 2017 and our MEC’s have been ignorant about their issues. But the fact remains that the SAPS police officers are not trained to handle dead bodies or let alone package and transport these them,” Syed said. He added that as much as the mortuary workers can justify their call but how does one disrespect the deceased by allowing them to lay on the roadside for hours .”Aside from forensics that need to be carried out and sometimes this even takes longer than expected. There is no political will to resolve this issue. The sad part is that citizens are the ones who are are suffering,”he said. Syed further said that the government must call on the private funeral sector to assist in the transportation of bodies, because surely this will be far more appreciated by the affected families. Having SAPS police officers transporting mortal remains is uncalled for but I further admire the police for assisting but it has to stop,” said Sye