A decade ago, I would never have imagined being where I am today. This is true for every single one of us, as life has thrown many highs and lows and within a span of ten years lots can change. The interesting part is that the highs offered, does out-weigh the lows, but that is where your perspective and mindset comes in. I am a firm believer that every experience that life offers, presents a learning curve and I always look for that one aspect that can be learnt as a life-lesson, even if it is a heart-wrenching one. As I enter the New Year, I pondered over this point of life lessons and reversals. I believe in universal energy, in God having a ruling hand in the outcome of our endeavours. I also believe that the association is important and that the company we keep can either allow us to grow or keep us stagnant. I am not big into New Year resolutions, for the simple reason that I do not believe in waiting for the turn of the calendar to make changes. Clarity and focus is key factors to help you know where you want to be by the end of this year. We all have goals, young and old alike. Whether it is personal goals, or professional ones
we do share wanting to achieve something. Sometimes these goals can look overwhelming, seem far off or even impossible to achieve (more like a dream rather than a goal). However, a simple tool to use is to actually break down the
big goal into smaller, more manageable and realistic targets that will eventually accumulate to achieving the big prize. Mindset is also key. As difficult as it maybe to keep going, you have to be clear and consistent in what you want to achieve and just push on. I try to imbibe these aspects with my two girls at home. As young as they are, they know that clarity is important, like what do you want to achieve by the end of the school term perhaps, and then take the necessary, ‘consistent’ steps to achieve your goal. Yes, we all have our down-days, that may offer inconsistency, but that does not mean we fall off the wagon, and give up. This is where mind-set and focus comes in. One bad day, or bad week, or a life situation that may set you back – certainly does not mean you give up.  All that means, is that you try a tad harder when you are back on board. This is in keeping with the association or the circle of friends that we engage with. Those who are genuine and true will always be there to lift you up, to keep you afloat and to keep cheering
you on. These are the people we want to be close too and in turn, we offer the same love and support in their lives. Here’s wishing you and your loved ones a fantastic New Year. Keep on keeping on, nothing is ever too big to work towards. About the columnist:
Krsangi Radhe is a neuro-linguistic programming practitioner, time line therapist and coach.  She is also an educator, public relations practitioner and motivational speaker. She is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching.