The ward councillors role in partnering with local communities and organisations is key to improving services and quality of life for the citizens. The Westville Weekly Gazette spoke with DA Ward Councillor, Warren Burne who gave a review of Ward 30 for 2019, the challenges he experienced and plans for 2020.“Given the composition and the nature of ward 30, I had many challenges during 2019. At least one half of the geographic area of Ward 30 is in Westville. But, only two of the eight voting districts in ward 30 are in Westville, and about one quarter of the voters in ward 30 are in the two Westville voting districts,” said Burne.He explained that the residents in the other six voting districts in Sherwood (x2), Bonela (x2), Mayville and Cato Manor/Cato Crest, require more assistance from their councillor than Westville residents. According to Burne, about 85 percent of his time is spent in the non-Westville voting districts in ward 30.Burne said that the main focus of his attention during 2019, was the impact of the M13/Essex Terrace Interchange Upgrade Project. The municipality tried to accommodate the business forums through the operation of a “Business Desk” but gave up and the main contractor, Martin and East, started dealing with sub-contractors directly. The involvement of the business forums has delayed the project, because of the threats of the members of the business forums to the main contractor. The main contractor was affected by delays in the re-routing of services on the ground (stormwater pipes, electricity cables, Telkom cables, etc). Metro Police was visible on the site. The management of the traffic during the construction period, and speeding on Devon Terrace, affected residents which Burne handled. He said that he attended ten project meetings during 2019, of the “Business Desk” and the “Project Steering Committee” and two community feedback meetings. The project completion date has been shifted to 2021.  Burne said that the municipal issues affecting Westville residents are grass and tree cutting, verge clearing, domestic refuse collection, the non-distribution and non-collection of orange bags, potholes, streetlight outages, electricity outages and water outages, the extended sewer leak into the river between Thames Place and Somerset Drive and also near Conway Park and issues with accounting problems on the metro bills. “I expect these issues to continue until the municipality puts in place an efficient, supply chain management system.” said Burne.  He said that his focus for 2020 is to ensure that municipal services are provided efficiently and optimally. He said that, residents in the formal housing in the other voting districts, include all the issues which affect Westville residents like grass cutting, verge clearing, dumping, potholes, electricity and water outages, streetlights not working and, in the Bonela, Sherwood and Cato Manor areas, the failure of the contractor in collecting the domestic refuse and land invasion issues and the expansion of the invasion of the land.  Burne said that he experiences time constraints in publicising his activities on Facebook which he is hoping to change and that his aim to ensure adequate provision of municipal services will become complicated by preparing for the Municipal elections in 2021. He said that he is unsure which voting districts will make up ward 30 in the future, due to a demarcation process which is underway. For more information, Burne may be contacted on 083-326-6633 or warrenburnecllr@gmail.com.