KwaZulu-Natal is not a playground for criminals and police officers are out in full force. That was the message conveyed by police after investigations into a hijacking case led to arrests and recovery of stolen goods estimated at about R1, 5m recently. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said, “On 17 January, a truck driver came to the uMkomaas police station pleading to police to help locate his truck which was hijacked in Maydon Wharf. He alleged that he was leaving the harbour when he was ambushed by group of people who robbed him and drove away with his truck.Within hours of the incident being reported, police officers together with a tracking company, managed to trace the truck to the N2 freeway near the uMgababa off-ramp where it was left abandoned. The cargo along with the trailer was nowhere to be found.” “On Monday, devoted police officers from various units as well as other role players followed up on information which led them to a warehouse in Isipingo. “The warehouse was searched and some of the cargo was recovered. Four suspects were arrested and charged for being in possession of stolen property. The team proceeded to Jacobs where the trailer and an empty container were found. While at the scene, the team received more information which led them to Isipingo, where six suspects were arrested and four vehicles which were believed to be used in the commission of the crimes, were seized. The seized vehicles include a Polo; a Mercedes Benz; a Run X and an Audi. When police arrived at the scene they found the suspects hiding at the back of the building,” Naicker added. He said, “Police discovered that the truck driver who is alleged to have been hijacked at Maydon Wharf, sold the truck with the goods to the suspects. “They proceeded to KwaMakhutha, where the driver of the vehicle was found hiding and he was subsequently arrested. The value of the recovered goods is estimated at R1,5m. The operation is ongoing and more suspects are expected to be arrested. The 11 arrested suspects aged between 39 and 50 appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court for theft and for being in possession of stolen property.” The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula has commended the police officers for their dedication and for making sure that the suspects are arrested.