Economic gloom
is on the cards for Newcastle as the largest steel manufacturing company in
Africa, ArcelorMittal, is expected to cut more than 1000 jobs. There are also
rumours that the company might shut down its operation completely. The steel
giant has been at the heart of the town’s economy for many years. Located in
the northern part of KwaZulu-Natal, it is the country’s foremost supplier of
profile products. The plant employs about 2237 permanent staff and 51 contract
employees, producing 1.9 million tons of steel annually. However, ArcelorMittal
has been plagued by rumours of it shutting operations in Newcastle in March. In
December thousands of employees protested after the announcement of the closure
of its Saldanha Bay operation. In a statement
released by the steel manufacturing giant last month, it said that it had
experienced a “challenging year” and an “intense focus was placed on
cash preservation. Exploring the benefits of a concentrated operating footprint
will be important during this phase of the review,” the company said in a
statement. Kobus Vester,
the former the chief executive at the JSE said that the 2019 downturn in the
steel market has been far worse than could have been anticipated. “The global
steel industry has been experiencing the most challenging time since the global
financial crises,” said Venter. Employees are at
the mercy of ArcelorMittal. One worker who asked not to be named said that he
has no idea what will he do to support his family should the company close
doors. “I have a
wife and two pre-school kids to look after as well as my parents. What is most
frustrating is that nobody in senior management can give us a straight
answer,” he said. Another
employee confirmed that there have been a number of retrenchments already.
“At this stage it is one person doing the job of three people. The
workload has increased yet our salary remains the same,” he said. Local
businesses will also suffer, directly or indirectly, should the company close.
One business owner, Koobus van Vuuren, who owns a logistics company says that
he was very disappointed. “I have lived here for many years. My business
will definitely have a direct impact. Our town runs the risk of becoming a
ghost town,” said Van Vuuren. Newcastle
Municipality communications manager Mlungisi Khumalo, said that although the
municipality was “fully aware” of the current situation he was unable
to make an official comment.