Time is ticking for the public to make written submissions to the Parliamentary Ad Hoc Committee, appointed to initiate and introduce legislation amending Section 25 of the Constitution. The long-awaited draft bill has been published and the deadline for submissions is 31 January. The Vumelana Advisory Fund – a non-profit organisation that was formed in 2012 to help beneficiaries of the land reform programme put their land to profitable use, has urged key stakeholders and South Africans in general to participate in the process. ” Public participation is necessary to to ensure a fair representation of different voices, as the country forges ahead in amending Section 25 of the Constitution,” said Peter Setou, chief executive of the Vumelana Advisory Fund. “ It is important to not forget our civic duty. All key stakeholders and South Africans in general should commit some time to review the draft Bill and prepare to engage with the parliamentary process before the closing deadline for public commentary on the Bill,” said Setou. He highlighted that while it is important to engage with the process aimed at amending the Constitution, it is equally important to urgently address the current challenges besetting land reform and accept that most of these will not be addressed through a constitutional amendment. “The challenges faced by the current beneficiaries of land reform must be addressed since failure to do this will only compound the problem as more land gets acquired. Given a broad acknowledgement that constitutional changes alone will not resolve major issues, a lot still needs to be done to resolve the land issue in a progressive and inclusive manner,” he said. Setou recommended the following: • There is a need to balance the manner in which land is acquired and used. The debate on land expropriation without compensation has somewhat reduced the land reform question to one of acquisition. However, the important question of what happens once land is acquired and transferred remains largely ignored. This requires urgent attention if we are to meaningfully improve the lives of ordinary South Africans.
• The restitution process has to be streamlined and two areas require urgent attention. During the first round of land claims, 90% of the claims were settled through financial compensation. It is highly likely that this will be the case once the new window is re-opened. If this process can be speedily and fairly completed a large portion of restitution claims can be finalised. On the other hand, high value, large scale and complex claims have taken decades to resolve. It is important that we acquire access to skills needed to ensure that these claims are dealt with expeditiously thus saving jobs and continued operation of existing businesses to the benefit of the land reform beneficiaries.