More than two weeks after the cold-blooded killing of Phoenix SAPS poilceman, Warrant Officer Theena Pillay in Woodview, his suspected killers have still not been brought to book. “Sadly, no arrests have been made as yet in the murder of Warrant Officer T Pillay. He was an outstanding police officer who kept the flag at Phoenix SAPS flying high,” said Phoenix Community Police Forum chairman, Umesh Singh. Pillay was shot dead three days before Christmas as he was leaving a residence on Alfawood Place in Woodview to resume duties at SAPS Phoenix Police Station when a white Toyota Etios stopped in front of him. KZN Police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, said: “An unidentified man alighted from the Etios, walked up to Pillay and shot several times at him. However, the policeman managed to return fire, killing the suspect instantly. Sadly, the officer also succumbed to his injuries. The other suspect/s that were in the Etios then sped away.” Acting national police commissioner, Lt/General Fanie Masemola called for a widespread search for the remaining suspects at the time of the murder. “I have been assured that the 72 hour Activation Plan has been mobilised with the all the necessary resources have been deployed to track down the remaining suspects,” said Gen Masemola. “We, the police management, have made a clarion call to all our police officers never to fall with a gun in their hands. Our colleague fought a brave fight today but sadly he lost his life, but not without ensuring that his assailant went down too,” Masemola added. National Police Minister, Bheki Cele, attended Pillay’s funeral service. He said he hoped that no police officer was implicated in the slain cop’s murder. “This thing of sending criminals for warm-water baths and free meals – I don’t like it. This is a father, a son and a colleague. Someone must answer. Someone must pay,” Cele said and called for the swift arrest of the others involved in the brutal murder. Masemola intimated that following Pillay’s killing, reports of criminals who were gunning for him (W/O Pillay) emerged. He warned that those linked to Pillay’s murder will be sought and dealt with severely. News surfaced that prior to Pillay’s shooting, police raided the tavern of a known drug dealer in Phoenix and since then, Pillay had received death threats from the drug dealer. Singh said, “It is sad that a police officer of Pillay’s calibre had to suffer such a gruesome death. He strived to keep the streets of Phoenix clean and crime free and he was diligent in his duties. His death is a huge loss to the community of Phoenix and the policing fraternity.” The family, community and colleagues of Pillay are still reeling from his heinous murder and the race to find those responsible for his death is on. Security company, KZN VIP spokesperson, Glen Naidoo, said Pillay falls in the group of untouchables. He described him as an officer who dedicated his life to making Phoenix a drug free and a safe place for all to live in.
“A well known owner of a tavern/ drug and prostitute racketeering den actually had a court order against Pillay because he tried to uphold the law. There’s word that he was threatened that he will never see Christmas. The question remains now, who has blood on their hands?” Naidoo asked. Chairperson of CPF Sector 5 and executive committee member of the Religious Leaders’ Forum, Pastor Mervyn Reddy, said, “The community of Phoenix has been left shocked and saddened after hearing about the tragic and heinous murder of our Phoenix police officer Pillay. The gunning down of this exemplary policeman who was dedicated and committed to eradicating drugs in Phoenix had his life and career cut short by heartless and inhumane criminals who did not think or spare a thought about his beloved family that would be left traumatised by their ghastly deed. “As a religious and community leader I believe that the Phoenix community is under siege by criminals. We are seen as soft targets and the time has come for us as a community to stand up and be counted in the fight against crime. Let us form a formidable force through CPF’s and neighbourhood watches and let us unite to fight criminals and drive them out of our beautiful community of Phoenix.” Police continue to appeal to anyone with information on crime to contact the Crime Stop number on 086 00 10111 or via the SAPS MySAPSApp. Callers may remain anonymous and all information will be treated with strictest confidence.