“Life Entabeni Hospital’s paid parking system is an accident waiting to happen.” This is the reaction of residents, patients and visitors to the hospital after they learned that a new paid parking system has been introduced by the hospital.Entabeni introduced the paid parking system in December last year, after there was a daily struggle to find enough parking bays for patients and their visitors. The tariff for the first hour is R7 with an escalation of R1 per hour for up to four hours and there after a minimal escalation.Explaining the reason to install the paid parking system, Lara Richards, Life Entabeni’s marketing and communication coordinator said that parking at the hospital had historically been free, but there was a daily struggle to find enough bays for patients and their visitors. She said that on further investigation into this, it was discovered that there were many cars parked on the premises that did not belong to visitors to the hospital. “The hospital also took vehicle security into account and pressure on the parking lot had been alleviated, “said Richards.Commenting on the matter, Umbilo Community Policing Forum and Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum’s chairperson, Heather Rorick said that the hospital could have sorted the illegal parking by upping its security. “The hospital could have also given a parking time limit, when a car is parked for more that that limit, have its wheels clamped and have the owner prove they were at the hospital,” said Rorick. She said that the paid parking system comes with a lot of traffic danger.  “The entrance is right on the top, where cars speed up to get up that steep hill, now if cars are waiting in line or slowed in getting into that parking, there is a greater chance of an accident.” She questioned whether any consultations were done before the system was introduced. “Were the residents on that road consulted by the hospital before hand, as this now impacts them as well. I don’t think so. Was a proper and thorough traffic assessment done on the impact of cars waiting in a queue to get into the hospital, and to having cars all parked outside now on the road due to people not willing to be charged extra when going to get services at the hospital, asked Rorick.”Umbilo resident Arnold Bate said: “Hospitals have enough money and they do not need to charge visitors for parking,” Another resident Gloria Abrahams said: “When I recently visited the hospital, I had to pay R12 for parking, its unacceptable. My husband also went to the hospital for his good old fashioned tests. He said there was ample parking but still had to pay R7 for parking. It goes to show that the number of people who park there are not there to see doctors or patients they just park there illegally the entire day. I suggested that the hospital has its security officers control the parking instead of making visitors and patients pay.  Residents suggested that visitors and patients be given stamped cards to display on their vehicle windscreen in this way, parking would be free and secure.