Taking chronic medication can be devastating for patients and others tend to forget to take it on time. To help patients get into the habit of remembering their meds, two University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) innovative medical students deem to have the solution, the ‘Pill Alert’ App. Mohamed Suleman, second year student and Kapil Narain in fifthyear have created ‘Pill Alert’ – a groundbreaking cell phone app that they have taken to Switzerland,  presenting it to an international audience at the World Health Organisation in Geneva last year. The two young aspiring doctors said they were fortunate to begiven such a prestigious opportunity. They were selected as one of the top ten finalists among 163 proposals in a contest, tasked to find solutions to antimicrobial resistance, a condition that threatens the effective prevention and treatment of a range of infections caused by bacteria, parasites and viruses by antibiotics. “Mohamed and I are fortunate for having been given such a prestigious opportunity to present at an international platform. Being recognised by such global giants in health care is something for us to be proud of and hold in the highest esteem. Meeting and engaging with leading experts in the field of Public Health was an exhilarating experience.” said Narain. Suleman, who is also a UKZN summa cum laude pharmacy graduate, said: “Given that patient non-compliance to medication is a significant contributor to Antimicrobial Resistance, Kapil and I have designed an innovative approach using cell phone-based technology to send automated reminders via text messages to patients to take their medication on time. “This mobile health intervention seeks to improve patient compliance to treatment, thereby significantly reducing Antimicrobial Resistance. Being able to showcase our work on a global stage is a step forward for the app.” “When they had a look at our proposal, they asked us to come over, and so we did the presentation. We received some feedback, and we intend to incorporate that feedback into our proposal, and we hope to be working with the Department of Health and the Department of Science and Technology in the new year,” he said. Assistant director general of the World Health Organisation, Dr Hanan Balkhy congratulated them on their outstanding work and expressed her joy knowing that there are passionate youth who are determined to find solutions to growing challenges that the world faces.