A 62-year-old Phoenix man’s wife, domestic helper and two other women were arrested and spent the weekend in jail after they attempted to suffocate and strangle him in his home, on Wednesday.Rajen Govender is calling for the law to take its course as he contemplates why his estranged wife unleashed such violence on him.The four suspects, identified as Sandra Govender, 53, Kwanele Mbele, Nomfundisi Ntape and Zandile Mvelu were immediately apprehended by a neighbour, who rushed to the house and he was duly assisted by security company personnel.The four women, aged between 38 and 53, have been arrested for attempted murder and conspiracy to murder. They appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Friday and were remanded into police custody. They will re-appear in court for a possible bail application.Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said that it is alleged that at about 5.30pm on Wednesday, the complainant, 62 was seated in the lounge at his residence on Wheatbrook Avenue in Brookdale and he was watching TV when the ordeal unfolded. “The complainant was approached by three women who suddenly covered his head with a bin bag and two of the women began throttling him with a scarf. When he managed to remove the bag, he discovered that one of his assailants was his maid,” Naidoo said. She added: “They began to struggle with one another until they got to his bedroom where the struggle to throttle and suffocate him continued. The suspects were then joined by the victim’s wife. She also tried to suffocate him with a bin bag. He managed to activate the panic button. The neighbour came to his rescue and all the suspects were arrested.”According to Naidoo, the wife made an admission to the police that she and her husband are separated but occupy the same house. “She claimed that they have plenty of personal differences. She further claimed that she planned the entire incident with the maid for a reward of R4 000.”Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, said that this is yet another example of the degeneration of family values and the lack of regard for human life, more so that of a spouse albeit an estranged spouse.“No matter the circumstances between spouses or family members, unleashing such violence with death as the intended result is unacceptable. We do not live in a lawless society. There is the law that can intervene and organisations that can help provide solutions and a fresh perspective on longstanding or critical issues,” Singh said