A dearly loved member of Malvern SAPS is saying goodbye to her colleagues and the community in Queensburgh this week, following her appointment to Captain at the KZN Provincial Communications Office.Speaking to The Chatsworth Tabloid, Radhika Marimuthu said, saying goodbye at the end of a journey is perhaps the most unenviable task.“Not only does it pull at your heart strings, but rather the sense of sadness lingers long after the echo of the words on the horizon. At this somewhat poignant yet fulfilling juncture in my tenure at SAPS Malvern, the time has come for me to say goodbye, adieu, farewell, hasta la vista. Alvida on my onward journey. I have achieved the rank of Captain which means my ship will weigh anchor and set sail off from SAPS Malvern,” said MarimuthuMarimuthu said since her inception at SAPS Malvern in 2009, she has been blessed to meet and form inimitable bonds of partnerships in her line of duty as Corporate Communications Officer. She said: “Policies, instructions and regulations were implemented both in the external and internal occupational environment to execute service delivery excellence while enhancing the image of the SAPS. It is with this very commitment and dedication of all members at SAPS Malvern, and our enviable teamwork that ensured the safety of all within SAPS Malvern Policing Precinct. My journey over these past 11 years with my senior citizens, my pupils, educators, the community policing forum (CPF) and the community of Malvern and beyond its borders, has polished me as a person and honed my universal elements of humanity.” The now captain, Marimuthu, said she won’t forget the lesson’s learnt while serving with SAPS Malvern. “I will always hold close to my heart the many life’s lesson taught in my tenure of duty at SAPS Malvern. My quest has always been service excellence and upholding the vision and mission of the SAPS. Now as I proceed on my journey as an Officer to my next port of call which is the Provincial Communications Office, I take with me this wealth of knowledge and experience that is not written in any rule book,” Marimuthu said.She added: “It is with much respect that I thank my station commander, Lieutenant Colonel Valarine Reddy, for her unique management style that blessed me with latitude in executing my duty to the optimum at SAPS Malvern. To my colleagues I wish you the very best in all your efforts in flying the flag of the SAPS victoriously high.”Reddy said, Marimuthu will be missed. She said: Radhika leaving SAPS Malvern is a bittersweet. We want to congratulate her on her promotion to captain and at the same time, her leaving will leave a gap that cannot be filled. Her weekly crime reports, hints and tips and SAPS malvern success stories will be missed by the faithful readers of the media. Radhika has certainly put SAPS Malvern in the forefront and has always strived to uplift the image of the station. “The management and staff of SAPS Malvern wish her every success at her new post with provincial communications.”