Durban Flying Squad Constable Sphelele Cele,33, was passionately executing his duties as a police officer when he was ruthlessly shot after stopping a vehicle together with his partner, in Musgrave, on Friday.He succumbed to his injuries in hospital shortly after being shot and within a 48 hour manhunt, his alleged killer was arrested by police attempting to board a bus in Pietermaritzburg with Johannesburg as his destination. Arrested suspect, Ntuthuko Mabaso ,26, appeared briefly in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday on a charge of the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition and will appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on a charge of murder said, Hawks spokesperson, Simphiwe Mhlongo.The vehicle used by the suspect in his getaway after the shooting was recovered on Barnett Road in Sydenham. One suspect was arrested on scene whilst Mabaso fled. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, said: “The accused was arrested in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday. He was attempting to board a bus to Johannesburg. The accused spotted the police approaching him. He attempted to flee. The suspect was stopped and arrested through the use of the police K9 unit. He was found in possession of a SAPS service pistol which was taken from a police official in uMlazi in December 2019.”Cele leaves behind his wife and two children. Cele was the second cop killed within a 24 hour period. Just hours before Cele was gunned down, Mariannhill Public Order Policing Unit Captain Muzingaye Mthiyane ,54, was walking home from a local store near his New Germany residence, when he was gunned down. According to police, neighbours heard gunshots and went outside to investigate. Residents spotted a white Toyota double cab with tinted windows speeding off.According to Brigadier Naidoo, the Captain was found with all his personal belongings on him including his cellphone, wallet and service pistol, therefore, ruling out robbery as a motive for his killing.A case of murder has been registered and the motive of the shooting is unknown. The National Commissioner of the SAPS, General Khehla Sitole has condemned the ongoing attacks and killing of police officials. He has described the latest incident as an attack on the authority of the state.He applauded the multidisciplinary team for securing the arrest of Cele’s alleged killer. “The arrest of the suspect within 48 hours of the commission of this crime must be commended. This arrest should serve as a deterrent and warning to all who continue to undermine the authority of the state by attacking and killing law enforcement officers,” he said. General Sitole has further urged the investigators to ensure that no stone is left unturned in ensuring that the suspects behind the New Germany murder of the police officer are found and brought to book. Anyone who may have witnessed the incident or have information that could lead to the apprehension of the suspects, is urged to report to the police by calling the crime stop number 08600 10111 or by giving a tip-off on the MySAPS app. Callers are reminded that they may remain anonymous.