A Phoenix mother is crying out for justice and she is offering a R5 000 reward for valuable information that will lead to the arrest of her son’s ‘killers’ after his body was found near the railway tracks in Phoenix on 29 September 2019 in what was initially alleged to have been an inquest investigation, (Phoenix Tabloid, 1 October 2019). Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, a heartbroken Samantha Govender, said: “I did not believe that my son’s death was an accident even though his body was next to the railway line with his feet on the tracks. The train ran over his feet and he was declared deceased shortly after medics attended to him. However, prior to my son’s foot being amputated by the train, he was badly beaten and in my belief, he was placed on the tracks in the hope that the train would run him over and the assault would be covered up.”Govender said she battled to get information from police who claimed that an inquest was being investigated after they suspected Mason jumped from the bridge nearby in an alleged suicide attempt.“I struggled with police cooperation in my son’s case and finally received the post mortem results. The report suggested that my son suffered severe blunt force trauma besides the foot amputation after the train ran over his feet. It did not conclusively state how Mason was killed but I believe that the severe beating meted out to him, played a big part in my son’s merciless death.”The grieving mother believes that Mason was assaulted and his body was placed on the tracks in a bid to finish him off. “It appeared that some how he managed to drag himself off the tracks but he was unable to pull his feet away in time. There are people out there that know exactly what happened to my son and who are involved in his death. That is why I am offering the reward for information that can help me to find my son’s killers,” the determined mother said.She said that her son was last seen in the vicinity of the Caltex garage on Canehaven Drive. “Whoever, has information of his whereabouts thereafter can help me to put the pieces of this distressing puzzle together. As a mother, my heart is breaking every day for my young son. He died in such a gruesome manner.I have too many unanswered questions. I need clarity. I do believe that there are people out there who have my son’s blood on their hands. I want justice for Mason. I am a mother in search of the truth behind my son’s death. If anyone can help me to achieve this, I appeal to you to come forward and contact me so that justice can prevail. I am working with police and we will follow all leads to find the answers I am searching for,” said Govender.In the initial death investigation, Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said:“It is alleged by the train operator that at about 5.30am she was operating a train to KwaDukuza from KwaMashu when the tragedy occurred. The train operator alleged that she approached the bridge at Mount Edgecombe Station when she saw the body of a man lying next to the railway line with both feet on the railway line. “She could not stop the train and the train went over the man’s feet. She stopped the train and summoned the security guards, KwaMashu Railway police and the paramedics.” Naidoo said that the victim was still alive. “The paramedics tried to help but the victim then passed on. The deceased had injuries on the head, a broken right arm, and his right foot was completely removed from the body whilst the left foot was run over by the train. In the deceased’s pocket, his identity book was found. Phoenix police are investigating an inquest.” Anyone with information on Mason Govender’s death can contact Samantha Govender, on 064 1160 516.