The matric class of 2019 at Scottburgh High School can take a bow. They finished their schooling life on a high note with Avaneshni Govender, Sibusiso Magwaza and Sfundo Shozi bagging six As, six distinctions and five As respectively. While Althaf Khader got five distinctions.Avaneshni got As in English, Afrikaans, accounting, physical science, biology and life orientation. She was awarded a  B symbol in mathematics. Sfundo scored As in accounting, mathematics, physical science, IsiZulu, life orientation and history, Sibusiso  achieved distinctions in mathematics, physical science, accounting, life sciences and IsiZulu. He got a B symbol in English and life orientation while Alfhaf got As in English, Afrikaans, mathematics, life orientation and life sciences. He obtained B symbols in physical science and accounting.Aveneshni who has been accepted at the University of KwaZulu Natal to study chemical engineering, finished her schooling life like they way she started – by obtaining top results. She, her father, Pravin, and mother, Mogie, are over the moon. ” I am thrilled with my results. I believe that one’s attitude and the energy that one is surrounded by determines one’s success. One should not only  dream  but dream big. I am very grateful for the encouragement I  received from my family and friends. Their support was a driving force for me to discover my true potential and to scale great heights,” said Avaneshni.Her dad, an operations manager, said the numerous certificates which Avaneshni won in primary school and high school were displayed at their home. “Avaneshni has always been a bright spark. The numerous trophies and other awards in the cabinet is testimony to that. My wife and I are proud of her,” said Govender. Sfundo who was among the high flyers in the Ugu district (which topped the KZN districts) said he was always confident that he would excel in the exams.  ”I burnt the midnight oil. My hard work has paid off. I am delighted with my results,” said Sfundo.  He won the Dux Award last year and intends studying towards a degree in accounting at the University of Pretoria. Sibusiso attributed his success to hard work,  prayer and the support he received from his mother, Thobile, and dad, Lucky. ” I was expecting top results. I am undecided on my university studies,” he said. Althaf’s aunt Munira Khader said she, her brother, Sayed (Althaf’s dad) and other family members knew that Althaf would pass Grade 12 with flying colours.“Althaf has been a top pupil from primary school days. He finished third in the matric class of 2019 at Scottburgh High School. He has won several awards at primary school and high school. Althaf wants to study towards a degree in accounting at the University of KwaZulu Natal. We are proud of him,” said Khader.