A councillor’s primary role is to represent their ward or division and the people who live in it. A councillor provide a bridge between the community and the council. The Springfield Weekly Gazette spoke with ward 25 councillor Hassan Haniff and ward 27 councillor Ernest Smith who both shared challenges they faced in 2019 and their plans for 2020. These include changes they would like to see happening in their wards. Haniff said 2019 was a very challenging year in ward 25. There were too may water bursts and electricity outages. Very old infrastructure and cables, sewer overflow was an endless story. “As the councillor of the ward, I have had many meetings with various departments about the upgrade of the ward. Every time it was about finance. Illegal dumping is way out of my control. I have been requesting for residents to attend the ratepayers and CPF meetings so we can work together in finding solutions. The attendance has been very poor,” Haniff said. He said that there was a lot of work to be done in his ward. According to him, a lot of his time was spent sorting out issues upon issues e.g. water burst, electricity outages, sewer overflow, verge cutting etc. of which most of these issues were carried into the new year. Even so, Haniff said that In 2020, he would like the various departments to be more proactive and assist with issues in a quicker and shorter time. “When there is a water burst, the time information sent to roads department to repair takes too long. Some residents have had their tyres damaged. Quicker and easier solutions need to be put in place. Ratepayers are contributors to the city and they have rights to complain. Part of their rates money was used in upgrading the area. I am hoping that 2019 issues for the informal settlements get sorted out this year. I don’t want to see more service delivery protest in the ward. In late 2019, water and sanitation department did not have funds to sort out the blocked sewer system and ablutions. We could not put more new ablutions because of the lack of finds,” explained Haniff. This year, he said he is looking for more positive outlook from the municipality to assist and find ways to help the informal and formal sectors. “Reality is that we have informal settlements around us. To create a balance, service has to be provided to both sectors. Last year, I prevented six protests by working with the leaders of the informal settlements,” he added. Haniff urged residents to attend CPF, ratepayers and community meetings. “Stop making excuses and complain. Learn about the municipality process and the city by-laws. Get onto the whatsApp groups in your road or area. Know what is happening. Join the crime patrollers group and you can become a street captain by calling up a meeting with the residents of the road. Contact your nearest SAPS to find out who are the chairpersons of the CPF and ratepayers. I urge you to attend. As the councillor of the ward, I am trying my best to assist with crime and service delivery issues. Don’t be a keyboard pusher and complain. Be proactive and let us meet you, so we can work together to find solutions,” he said. Haniff closed off by wishing all his residents the best for 2020. “Let’s work together to find solutions instead of finding problems.” For ward 27, 2019 was an interesting year according to Smith. ” It was an exceptional learning curb for me as a new councillor both in a professional and personal context as there were many different experiences that have taught me things about myself as well as the challenges that the community faces on a weekly if not daily basis,” he said. Smith said he has set a good routine in place where the council office in 453 Windermere Road opens from 8.30 am to 10.30am in the morning depending on council or committee meeting requirements. This year, Smith said he wants to engage more with residents in the area that allow a more frequent flow of information between the municipality and residents. “Another goal would be to network with a lot more with community members and form relationships with members of the community in order to come up with local based solutions to the local challenges that the community faces. Local based solutions allow the community to contribute effectively and I look forward to fostering and building those bonds further than I have done so already,” he said. Smith added: “Another goal of mine is to try and foster greater relationships with the officials from the various departments and make suggestions that they can choose to implement that would assist and overall improve service delivery in not only Morningside and  Berea but in the metro as well. In some cases, you as a councillor you win these small battles that impact the lives of many people in the area and other times where as other times you aren’t successful but that doesn’t deter me from constantly looking for ways improve on things as well as partnering up with people who share the same approach. Overall, I look forward to working with the community in trying to improve the area.” Ward 25 residents can contact Haniff on 084 701 2732 and ward 27 residents can contact Smith on 079 214 0020 for any ward related matters.