Veerisha Singh, a mother of three, has put her hometown on the map after winning the coveted Mrs Eco Tourism pageant 2019. The pageant has put her in line to be on an international platform in 2020. In October 2020, Singh will be heading to Thailand to compete for the Mrs Tourism World title Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Singh who hails from Phoenix said: “I decided to take part in the competition after having a difficult surgery and recovery, just to feel like myself again and gain confidence. I was on the peak of my career as I had just been accepted to study towards a PhD, when I fell sick and ended up in hospital.  I had an operation and it went wrong, my life fell apart and I was on the brink of death. After waking up from life support, I decided to serve mankind.” She said that it was a proud moment indeed as she shared the stage with her daughters, Yushaista Mikayla Singh, 15, and Yurishta Mikayra Singh, 10, who were also crowned for Miss Eco Tourism Charity Ambassador 2019 and Face of Miss Eco Tourism World 2019. “My daughters are usually shy and don’t like to walk on stages, however, seeing me after my battle to live, they decided to share the stage to support me,” she said. Singh, a nurse by profession for the past 15 years, subsequently won the queen title in aid of a charity wheelchair drive. “I am now using my platform to raise funds for Ndasa Childrens Home in Inanda and will be launching my Blue Rose Foundation initiative on Friday, 14 February 2020. “Blue Rose Foundation is inspired by what has happened to me. Blue Rose is unravelled love for women who have been hurt, abused, broken, tattered and shattered. My Foundation is made up of people that are truly deserving and have fought a battle, survived trauma or are mentally challenged. They come from all walks of life with no financial backing to my foundation but I choose them. Being a nurse – love, care and passion is what I’m about,” said Singh. A charity pageant will be hosted at the launch of the foundation at Ottawa Hall, commencing at 6pm. “We are hoping to raise much needed funds for the Ndasa Children’s Home at the