A councillor’s primary role is to represent their ward or division and the people who live in it. A councillor provide a bridge between the community and the council. The Westville Weekly Gazette spoke with DA Proportional Representation Councillor for wards 24 and 92 Caelee Laing and councillor for Ward 18, Melanie Brauteseth. Both councillors shared challenges they faced in 2019 and the plans they have for 2020, including all the changes they would like to see happening in their wards. Laing said that during 2019, she initiated clean-ups with her DA branch members and worked with Durban Solid Waste officials to have more bins provided for pedestrians. “The main focus last year was bringing more focus to recycling and illegal dumping. I also run a donations hub from my office throughout the year for when floods or fires occur in the informal settlements within the wards I work with, ” said Laing. She said that in 2020, she will be continuing with the donation collection programme and assisting with service delivery issues as they arise. “Challenges involve resource limitations in municipal departments and at times delayed responses from officials. I sincerely hope that this improves this year and the municipality improves service delivery in the suburb of Westville,” Laing said. Ward 18 councillor Melanie Brauteseth reported that the projects completed last year are: Josiah Gumede /Stapleton intersection tarred, speed humps in a number of roads to reduce speeding and increase motorist and pedestrian safety, signing of the private lease for Lahee Park-paving the way for the development of a world class sporting academy, delivery of assistance to traders who lost their businesses due to fire,  attended to numerous infrastructure complaints in the Westville North area and fencing of Henwood Park in Durban. She said that the plans for 2020 are refurbishment of water infrastructure in the Westville North, Cowies Hill area, completion of the C3 corridor of Go Durban, eradicationof weeds in gutters and pavements, rehabilitation of Crompton and Stapleton roads, clearing and maintenance of all sewerage systems and pump stations to alleviate the risk of pollution of the Palmiet and Umbilo rivers, fencing of the M19 highway in Westville North to improve security and the relocation of Home Affairs in Pinetown to improve functionality and security. The challenges that she foresees are budget constraints, pushing for the prioritisation of ward 18 projects, lack of materials in stores for internal maintenance, delays in procurement and awarding of tenders and quality of work delivered by private contractors.