A new mother said she was left traumatised after being mistreated by the nurses in the labour ward at the King Dinuzulu Hospital, in Springfield. The 21-year-old Khan said the nurses had a problem with her being indian. According to her, it started when she had severe contractions and went to the hospital. The nurses gave her Panado and sent her back home. ” Later that day,contractions became worse and that was when I realised that I was about to go to labour. I was then rushed to hospital and that was when my nightmare began,” she said. She said on arrival to the hospital the nurses told her family to go home in an unpleasant tone. “I was then rushed into the labour ward and upon arrival at the ward, I was rudely told to lay in the bed without help while I couldn’t even stand up from the wheelchair because of the pain I was experiencing. When I screamed because of the unbearable pain, I was told to keep quite because I was not screaming as loud as I was when making the baby,” added the woman. She also added that after giving birth, she was immediately given her child and told she was moved to another ward and was expected to walk to the ward immediately after being stitched. “I could not walk, I felt week and was expected to carry my belongings and my child simultaneously and move to the new bed I was allocated to. When I asked for help from one of the nurses, she raised her voice and asked me who do I think I am and further said surely in my head I must be thinking I am a princess and everyone in the hospital was my servant because I am indian,” she said. She further said the three days she spent after giving birth at the hospital, were the most horrible days of her life. “After giving birth, I was not given food the entire day and struggled breastfeeding my child because my body was not producing milk. When the nurse came to check the baby’s blood pressure she shouted at me and said I was not a good mother because I didn’t know how to breastfeed and she further made a joke about me in Zulu and everyone laughed at me. She further went to the next lady who was African and she complained about food and the nurse personally went to the kitchen to fetch her food.” According to Khan, on the next day, nurses continued to make her feel unwelcome and would refer to her as this Indian. “When I was making short prayers, one of the nurses passed by my bedside and made a remark saying not even praying is going to help me. I feared reporting the nurses once I was discharged because I was still expected to go back and remove my stitches and so I didn’t want to be further brutalised,” she said. Spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health Noluthando Nkosi said that the Department is deeply concerned by these allegations, and views them in an extremely serious light. “To this end, the Department strongly encourages the patient to come forward and provide more details, so that this matter can be fully investigated. Without prejudging, the outcome of that investigation, the department has a zero-tolerance approach to the ill-treatment of patients, and wishes to urge any aggrieved healthcare user to approach the office of the PRO, matron in charge or hospital CEO and register any complaints so that they can be investigated, and consequence management applied,” Nkosi said. She added that the department has publicised on its official Facebook page the contact details of every health district manager and CEO, so as to enable and encourage more transparent and accountable governance, and bridge the gap between the department and the public.