Fathers Hands is a Christian based community organisation on the KZN South Coast which helps destitute men, women and children.It is run by Sean and Charmaine Brown and started in January 2018. Sean Brown said: ” Fathers Hands was inspired by a life event many years ago. My wife, our two little girls and I were left destitute after we lost everything. We lived in a shelter and after a few months, found work and moved into a place of our own. God has blessed us to be a blessing to destitute women, men and children,” he said. He added that the organisation also assists destitute people in uMkomaas to find employment.“The idea is to give them back their self-confidence and dignity by showing them the love of God. We also help find employment or provide them with employment.  Fathers Hands has strict rules.  There is a zero tolerance on alcohol, drugs and violence. However, some people do break the rules and they are immediately asked to leave,” he said. According to Brown,  Fathers Hands has some good success stories where people regained their self-worth and dignity and are back in society as better and productive individuals. “There is a compulsory church attendance, life groups on Thursdays as well as devotions every morning. We also have a life skill programme every second week which the residents are obligated to attend,” he said.Fathers Hands is situated at 5 Mackenzie Street in uMkomaas and comprises of two houses. One house is for men and the other for women and children. The original house was dilapidated and vandalized when the Browns approached the owner, made him an offer and together with the first occupants of Fathers Hands, turned the house into livable accommodation.Fathers Hands is supported in a few ways. The couple are firm believers in giving from their abundance. Their company, South Coast Construction, is a strong supporter of Fathers Hands. Food and clothing donations are received from people within the community. Fathers Hands has a charity shop, located at 17 Barrow Street in uMkomaas, where people can donate clothing, furniture and unwanted goods, which we sell to support Fathers Hands. For any information regarding Fathers Hands, call Brown on 082 423 8448.