EThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda celebrated the district class of 2019 at the Matric Excellence Awards ceremony, held at the Durban’s ICC on Friday, 24 January.The ceremony has become a calendar event for the past 19 years. This year, the city has recognised 35 schools that achieved a 100 percent matric pass rate and 19 schools that improved by more than 30 percent. A new category of Top 10 pupils from disadvantaged schools was also introduced.Kaunda also took the opportunity to thank the province’s teachers, parents, School Governing Bodies and pupils for contributing to the KZN provinces 81.3 percent overall matric pass rate, for the class of 2019.He awarded full bursaries to deserving pupils to further their studies and brighten their future because against all odds, they performed well through hard work, determination and dedication.“As the country celebrates 26 years of democracy, we can proudly say that the lives of South Africans have changed for the better, guided by the Freedom Charter which demands that, “Education shall be free, compulsory, universal and equal for all children,” said Kaunda. He explained that government’s interventions of no-fee schools, the provision of scholar transport to the needy learners in rural areas, and the Nutrition Program have ensured that education is accessible to all pupils and poor children are not left behind.Kaunda quoted the country’s first democratically elected president Nelson Mandela who said: “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. The power of education extends beyond the development of skills we need for economic success. It can contribute to nation-building and reconciliation.”Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, kaunda said that he was very happy to congratulate eThekwini’s top performing matriculants. “It shows that our people are hard at work. There is a better future awaiting us but we need to put resources in, to invest in education. As a city we are continuing to attract more investment for the youth who need job opportunities after university, “ said Kaunda. The mayor highlighted the importance of creating a conducive investment environment in the city. He further explained that there is a high level of stability in the city and a reduction in public protests. “We are working with committees to build and prosper the city, said Kaunda.