It is no surprise that January and February weigh in as the least productive months of the year with most South Africans still stuck in a post-holiday slump, which can last for several weeks. So says Abdurahman Kenny (pictured), mental health programme manager at Pharma Dynamics. Accoring to Kenny, it is common for employees to suffer from a dopamine low when they are back at work. “They struggle to get back into the work routine after the highs of the holiday, but there are ways to make the mental transition easier. It should be comforting to know that everyone is affected by seasonal productivity dips which occur throughout the year, during the week and at certain times of the day,” said Kenny. He pointed out that studies have shown that work productivity starts to pick up in March. ” Overall, October tends to be the month during which the highest percentage of tasks are typically completed. January ranks as the least productive month with February following closely behind. We complete most of our tasks at the start of the week with productivity waning towards the end of the week. Our mornings are the most productive until 11am and then we start to taper-off after lunch. From around 3pm many people struggle to focus and we start paying more attention to Facebook posts, text messages and conversations with colleagues,” he said. Kenny added that by the time the clock ticks over to 4pm, our energy levels have plummeted. “We have mental ebbs and flows throughout the day that is regulated by our circadian rhythm. It is a natural, internal process that regulates the sleep-wake cycle every 24-hours which impacts our energy levels and mood. Other factors, such as not getting enough sleep, what we had for lunch, stressful deadlines in the morning or back-to-back meetings may all contribute to the mid-afternoon slump,” added Kenny. Kenny said glucose plays an important role in our mental performance and decision-making ability. “When our willpower is low, we tend to choose the path of least resistance, which explains why we’ll rather choose to connect with a friend on social media than working on a report or presentation. To sustain willpower and energy levels throughout the day, consider lunch with a low glycaemic index, such as vegetables, fruit, cheese, lean meats, hardboiled eggs, seeds, nuts etc,” said Kenny. According to Kenny napping for between six and ten minutes in the afternoon can help to restore cognitive function. “If you feel you simply can’t stay awake anymore, power down for a few minutes during lunch, but not too long or else you’ll feel groggy. Research published in the Neuroscience Journal showed that a 20-minute walk can improve cognitive performance. A burst of high-intensity exercise is best for reducing stress and anxiety,”.    He added that fitting in a walk or a quick gym-session during lunch will recharge your brain and release feel-good endorphins that will ensure that you finish the day strong. “Working in “sprints” or chunks of time, whether it is for an hour or 90 minutes, followed by a five minute break is also advised. Listening to music while working, changing your routine by taking a different route to work or scheduling fun things to do after hours could also help keep you mentally motivated. The key is not to try and fight against these natural dips in productivity by crushing a 10-hour day at the office, day after day. This strategy will only lead to burnout and heighten your risk of depression,” said Kenny.Those struggling with depression or anxiety, can visit Pharma Dynamics’ Let’s Talk website: www.letstalkmh.co.za or contact their toll-free helpline on 0800 205 026, which is manned by trained counsellors who are on call from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week.