Comedy stars and internet sensations Bash with Tash and Masood Boomgaard will be among the highlights of the first edition for 2020 of the “Durban Comedy Jam” set to take place at Sibaya iZulu Theatre at 8pm on 31 January and 1 February.The show will feature some of the best stand-up comedy performers in KZN. The full lineup features Bash with Tash, Masood Boomgaard, Jem Atkins, Monde Blose, Kamz Govender, Logie Naidoo and Cyril Basker. Bash with Tash, who will headline the show, is widely regarded as one of South Africa’s most versatile  comics, delivering side splitting laughs as well as thrilling audiences her spontaneity.Her candid approach to everyday life topics make her a hit with comedy lovers who can look forward to more compelling and side splittingly funny comic discourse from her. She has sold out venues across the country on numerous occasions. With Tash no two show are the same as she is known to improvise and to come up with jabs on the spot. Fresh from international tours of Dubai, New York and Los Angeles, Durban favourite Masood Boomgaard is ready to take  on the comedy scene in 2020 with a bang.  Best known for his comedy skits on the Dala U Crew and Iten channels that have landed on millions of cellphones across the country. Armed with a barrage of current affairs jokes and one liner gags, Boomgaard is always funny and relevant. There will be lots more one liners, courtesy of Kamz Govender, the rising comedy star known for his shows “The Punny-sher” and “Punny Monkey.”  Govender is at his best when in full deadpan mode as he riffs on a variety of topics, from growing up in Phoenix to the challenges of relationships.Another Durban favourite Jem Atkins returns to Sibaya following his national tour of his hilarious show “Not Famous.” The self deprecating comic is best known for his laid back style and razor sharp wit with his jokes focussing on the funny side of being a single dad. A lot can also be expected of another rising star, Monde Blose, who has set both the English and Venac comedy scene alight with his hilarious story style and high energy comedy antics. Blose has appeared alongside some of the biggest acts in the country.Also featuring is Cyril Basker, host of the Happy Hippo Comedy Club. Last and not least, audiences will be treated to the unique comedy stylings of perhaps Durban’s most famous citizen, Logie Naidoo, who continues his comedy journey at Sibaya promising many moments of hilarity. Durban Comedy Jam 2020 takes place on 31 Jan and 1 Feb at the Sibaya iZulu Theatre at 8pm. Tickets are R120 at Computicket and Checkers.