More than a week after the charred body of Premilla Basdew, 45, a mother of two, was found among the ash in a torched Wendy house on Clearhaven Close, her family refuse to believe that a fallen candle could be the reason for the deadly fire that claimed the life of their beloved relative.Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Basdew’s aunt, Gonasagrie Naidoo, said: “We do not believe that a candle was responsible for the fire that caused my niece’s gruesome death. It is shocking how a fire could burn for that amount of time, with a person burning to death and a shelter going up in flames, and yet no one saw anything until the very last minute. Naidoo described Premilla as a beautiful soul. “My niece had a kind heart. We were very close. We all loved her to bits. She was a happy-go-lucky person. I spoke to her on Monday morning and she told me she loved me. We were making plans for her to visit in Joburg. We are beyond shattered. Premilla’s parents are devastated. We want to know what happened that caused the fire and we want answers on how my niece died,” said Naidoo. Ramamma Pillay, mother of Basdew’s boyfriend, Dharmaseelan, said, Premilla and her son had a volatile relationship. “Both my son and his girlfriend, Premilla, fought a lot. They would drink and argue. On the night of the fire, Premilla, was in the Wendy house. She called me for food and she looked like she was drunk. I gave her food and a rechargeable light so she didn’t have to light a candle. She said she used to light a candle for mosquitoes. “My son was in my house. We watched TV and then went to sleep. I broke my sleep and went to the window. That’s when I saw the fire. I was shocked. I could hardly speak. I screamed at my son to check the fire,” Pillay said. “We rushed out. I was injured in the rush. My son and I took buckets to fill water to throw on the fire. Our neighbours rushed out to help. It was too late. Premilla was burnt inside,” added Pillay.Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said: “An inquest is under investigation. It is alleged that the deceased, a 45-year-old female who was sleeping in the Wendy house was burnt beyond recognition. It is suspected that she was under the influence of alcohol at the time. It is suspected that the Wendy house caught fire from a candle.”Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) Leader Patrick Pillay expressed his condolences to the bereaved family and stated that the lack of housing opportunities for people have created major social problems and have disrupted family systems.“Families are forced to live in inhabitable structures with potentially dangerous outcomes. Government needs to take cognisance of our citizen’s plight and fast track housing delivery for all people. This tragic loss is a loss to our community. Our community is in mourning and our prayers are with the respective family. I call on all affected to remain calm and allow the due processes of our justice system to prevail,” said Pillay