According to the judgment, in 2018/19, the South African Police Service recorded 41 583 cases of rape, which is an increase from 40 035 cases of rape recorded in 2017/18. ” This indicates that approximately 114 cases of rape were recorded by the police each day in 2018/19. In 2003, it was also alleged that a woman was raped every 36 seconds in South Africa. This illustrates that rape is not rare, unusual and deviant.  It is structural and systemic,” said the court. 

“Rape is a very serious offence. It is a humiliating, degrading and brutal invasion of the privacy, dignity and the person of the victim.” So said a full bench in the Constitutional Court which included Judges Makkanda Mathopo and Leona Theron, Johan Froneman and Chris Jafta. The court ruled that if a man raped a woman and his accomplices were present at the crime scene and did not participate in the rape they too ought be regarded as rapists. The judges said the applicant, Jabulani Tshabalala, was among the rapists who terrorised and raped seven women, including a pregnant lady and a 14-year-old girl. Judge Mathopo who penned the judgment said: “Women in this country are entitled to the protection of the rights in our Constitution. They have a legitimate claim to walk peacefully on the streets, to enjoy their shopping and their entertainment, to go and come from work, and to enjoy the peace and tranquillity of their homes without the fear, the apprehension and the insecurity which constantly diminishes the quality and enjoyment of their lives.” According to the judgment, the facts of this case demonstrate that for far too long rape has been used as a tool to relegate the women of this country to second-class citizens. “The high incidence of sexual violence suggests that male control over women and notions of sexual entitlement feature strongly in the social construction of masculinity in South Africa. Some men view sexual violence as a method of reasserting masculinity and controlling women,” said Judge Mathopo. “The applicant’s challenge is that under the common law, the crime of rape is an instrumentality offence which, by its nature, can only be committed by a male using his own genitalia, and not by an individual who is merely present when the offence is committed. The high court disagreed with that notion and convicted the applicant and his accomplices for the rapes,” said Judge Mathopo. The court remarked that women cannot be treated as mere chattels. “In 1997, Parliament took a bold step in response to the public outcry about serious offences like rape and passed the Criminal Law Amendment Act which prescribes minimum sentences for certain specified serious offences.  Parliament’s intention was that such lengthy minimum sentences would serve as a deterrent as offenders, if convicted, would be removed from society for a long period of time,” said the court. Judge Mathopo said the statistics sadly reveal that the minimum sentences have not had this desired effect. “Violent crimes like rape and abuse of women in our society have not abated.  Courts across the country are dealing with instances of rape and abuse of women and children on a daily basis. The media is in general replete with gruesome stories of rape and child abuse on a daily basis. Hardly a day passes without any incident of gender-based violence being reporte,” said Judge Mathopo. The court pointed out that this scourge has reached alarming proportions. “It is sad and a bad reflection of our society that 25 years into our constitutional democracy, underpinned by a Bill of Rights, which places a premium on the right to equality and the right to human dignity, we are still grappling with what is a scourge in our nation,” said Judge Mathopo.