“Hands off our mayor” That was the call that resonated
today (Friday, 31 January) at a meeting supporting the Newcastle mayor Dr
Ntuthuko Mahlaba. The meeting was called by businesses, religious formations, traditional
leaders, civic organisations, community leaders. Supporters were bussed in from Madadeni and Osizweni to the
Newcastle Town Hall. Ironically, service delivery protests broke out last week
in these same areas calling for Mahlaba to step down because of the lack of
service delivery in the area. About 250 placard-bearing supporters showed up at the Town
Hall. The mayor did not arrive to please the crowd as he was
unable to because of “work commitments”. Mahlaba has recently been under the spotlight for several
reasons, including the dismissal of about 200 municipal employees, paid parking
in the central business district, the lack of service delivery and corruption. Last year, murder charges against Mahlaba was dropped in
the Madadeni Regional Court, freeing him to return to work. He is also the
regional chairperson of eMalahleni ANC region. On his return back to office, he
has been busy rooting out corruption in the municipality. One supporter, Jabulile Sithole, said: “People do not seem
too fond of our mayor because he is digging up the crime and corruption in our
town. The people who want him out are the very same people who committed these
crimes of corruption. He is a good mayor. He is educated, financially stable
and does not need to unlawfully take money from the government.” Another supporter, who did not want to be named, said: “He
is trying to rid the town of all corruption. We as community members fully
support that. All these people who are protesting against our mayor are the
very same ones who are hiding something. It is just like when a dog sees a
threat, it will begin to bark.” Joyce Nzuza, another supporter at the meeting said that she
wants to see Newcastle flourish again. “The issues that our mayor is currently
dealing with now are all the garbage left behind by previous leaders who got
away with their dirty deeds. We all want Newcastle to be the best town
economically and socially in Northern KZN,” said Nzuza. The supporters said that they would not back down and will continue
to show the mayor full support. Their goal was clear: To make Newcastle a better place for
everyone who lives there.