When police realised that one of their most wanted men was in the Berea area, an operation was immediately conducted to swoop on the suspect and effect an arrest.KZN police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said that the suspect was confronted by police officers from various units and subsequently arrested. Police found a 9mm pistol with 30 rounds of ammunition in his possession.The suspect who has been on the run from police was wanted for theft of motor vehicles, murder and robbery committed at Umhlali, Montclair, Umsunduzi, Mpumalanga, Inchanga and Durban Central.According to Mbele, he is set to appear in court soon and is suspected to be linked to many taxi related incidents in the province. “On 23 September 2019 at 11:30pm, a 29-year-old taxi owner Dustin Pillay was in Shakaskraal when a white Jeep with two occupants opened fire at Pillay, fatally wounding him. The suspects fled the scene and a case of murder was opened at Umhlali police station for investigation. Mfanufikile Dlamini ,29, was also recently arrested on this case and appeared in court.“On 9 March 2019 at 7:45pm, Sibusiso Shozi and Sibonelo Mazibuko were driving through Mobeni when an unknown man opened fire at them before fleeing the scene. The two victims were found inside their vehicle with multiple gunshot wounds and were certified dead at the scene. Charges of murder were opened at Montclair police station for investigation,” Col Mbele said.“Sandile Ndimande and Mthoko Ndimande were at Mkhizwana in Umsunduzi on 29 August 2019 at 1:30am, when suspects who were driving a Toyota Quantum forced them into the taxi. They drove off and the two men were later found dead with gunshot wounds. Charges of murder were opened at the Umsunduzi police station for investigation.“A 41-year-old man alleged that on 5 November 2018 at 7:40am, he parked his motor vehicle a Fredville when two suspects held him at gunpoint and drove away in his Toyota Quantum. A case of carjacking was opened at the Inchanga police station for investigation. The vehicle was later recovered at Cliffdale,” added Mbele.She said that on 27 February 2009, a 28-year-old realised that her vehicle which was parked at her place of residence at Unit 2 in Mpumalanga was allegedly stolen. A case of theft was opened at Mpumalanga police station for investigation. The KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula has commended the police officers for arresting the suspect. “We are pleased that the suspect has finally been arrested and we are certain that he will remain behind bars for a long period,” he said.