It has been a horrendous start to the New Year for two Springfield families whose two teenager sons were callously stabbed by three ruthless knife-wielding muggers at the corner of Lotus Road and Foxglove Place, in the early hours of New Year’s morning. Speaking to The Springfield Weekly Gazette, the father of the 15-year-old boy said his family is shocked and traumatised that such violence was unleashed so close to their home but he is grateful that his son survived the stabbing. “My son has been discharged from hospital but his 16-year-old friend is critical but stable in hospital. All this pain and trauma because three thugs decided to unlawfully take what is not theirs and act out in violence. We are still reeling from the incident because we could have lost our boys had we not been informed in time and rushed them to hospital,” the angry father said. According to the Springfield father, his son and his son’s friend, were returning from a family braai a short distance away when they spotted three individuals approaching them. “Instinctively, my son sensed trouble and dropped his cellphone into some plants as he was passing. Suddenly, the three male individuals accosted my son and his friend and demanded their belongings.
My son saw a familiar person passing and screamed out to him for help at knifepoint but sadly, he probably thought it was New Year’s revelry and drove away. The trio then attacked my son for screaming out and stabbed him in the chest. They descended on his friend and as he struggled to remove items from his pockets whilst they also searched him, they stabbed him as well,” said the incensed dad. The knifed friend fell to the ground and his younger friend immediately dropped to his assistance. “At this point, my son said the assailants then stabbed him on his back because he tried to help his friend. The suspects took a cellphone, a wallet and a jacket before they fled. My son struggled to retrieve his cellphone where he dropped it minutes before the attack. He called me and said those dreaded words, ‘Dad we’ve been stabbed.’ I quickly rushed out to help the boys and found that my son had somehow managed to aid his friend despite his injuries almost to our home,” added the Springfield resident. The father said the two boys were rushed to hospital where they passed out and were treated. “My son was fortunate to have escaped any major organs being harmed except his lung membrane nicked. His friend, however, was brutally stabbed and his lung was punctured. He is stable but in a serious condition.We are struggling to come to terms with this kind of brutality and ruthless crime. Our boys could have been killed by these knife-wielding thugs with no regard for human life. From both families, we are so grateful that our sons are alive but we shudder at what they had to endure,” the irate dad said. Sydenham SAPS communications officer, Captain Myen Lazarus, said, “I can confirm that an incident did occur. Police are investigating a case of attempted murder after two victims alleged that three suspects robbed and stabbed them. No arrests have been made as yet. Anyone with information that can assist police in this investigation, is urged to contact Sydenham SAPS on 031 203 2703.”