The fight against drugs in Chatsworth has been boosted once again, with the seizure of narcotics worth an estimated R400 000, in Bayview. As part of the Safer Festive Season operations, the Provincial Drugs and Firearm Unit together with Point Task Team conducted a raid at Havenside Drive, Bayview. They were following up information about the suspects who have a drug storage at a certain house in Havenside.  Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said: “Upon entering the house a search was conducted and heroin capsules were recovered from the suspects. The drugs were ready to be distributed to the sellers. Two suspects aged 35 and 37 were placed under arrest. One of the arrested suspects was out on bail for the similar offense.” Further investigation were conducted at Saffron Road, where a 65-year-old man was found in possession of drugs. “Various drugs like heroin capsules, 98 mandrax and 10 packets of cocaine. The total number of heroin capsules recovered is 13 000. The estimated street value of the recovered drugs is R400 000. The suspects were charged for possession and dealing in drugs. They are expected to appear in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court.” The bust follow on the heel of the recovery of drugs worth an estimated R1 million in Silverglen. In relation to that incident three people aged between 21 and 31 were arrested and charged with a string of drug related offences including possession and dealing. Their arrests was welcomed by the Silverglen Community Policing Forum. Silverglen CPF chairperson, Nerish Lukhun, said: “We applaud and welcome the efforts of all the members involved in this operation, they did a good job which goes a long way towards getting rid of drugs in Chatsworth.” Lukhun said with the festive season in full swing the drugs would have been easily sold, to even children. “Drugs are a serious problem, because they lead to other things like prostitution and and crime. This is a win for us and a serious dent to the drug trade, which is ruining lives,” he said. The multi-disciplinary intelligence driven operation also led to the recovery of 998 capsules of heroin and 65 pieces of crack cocaine as well as cash of R1700. The seizure occurred in Silverglen, where two suspects aged 27 and 31 were arrested while they were in the process of delivering drugs. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said the arrest led to a follow up operation which was conducted in New Germany, Pinetown, where a drug lab was uncovered and a third suspect was arrested. He said: “A 21-year-old woman was found on the premises and was placed under arrest. On the property police seized various drugs including 7445 capsules of heroin, 595 grams of heroin powder, 126 grams of crystal meth, 112 grams of pure cocaine, 87 grams of large pieces of cocaine and a packet of crystal meth. A total of 130 000 empty capsules and various drug paraphernalia as well as R78 840 in cash was seized by police. The total value of the drugs seized is estimated at R1million.” The arrest was also welcomed by KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, who said: “This was a major breakthrough for the province and surrounding communities. Such operations are still ongoing as part of our Safer Festive Season operations. We continue to appeal to anyone who may have information on crime to contact Crime Stop on 086 00 10111. We also encourage people to download the MySAPS App on any iPhone or Android device. This App will allow users to provide tip-offs among others. These mediums will allow callers to remain anonymous and all information will be treated with strictest confidence.” 