Two weeks later, electricity issue still remain unresolved for fuming Ward 27, 31 and 33 residents. After sitting in darkness for more than five days, residents are blaming councillors and eThekwini municipality for not doing their job properly. One resident commented on Everything Musgrave page: “Does anyone know where the exact sight or location of the problemis? Are they really fixing the problem or waiting till the evening to work for overtime pay? Sorry to be rude but it’s just ridiculous. At work, there is no power and now again in the area where I live.”Another resident said: “This is disgusting and inhumane to say the least. What the hell is going on? Not even a single person can say whats going on, unless they just don’t want to.” Ward 31 Councillor Charmaine Clayton said that the city’s Electricity Unit has been inundated with network faults due to extremely hot and humid weather conditions that caused the substations to blow up, leaving residents in darkness. Clayton said that they cannot blame the municipality or even themselves as councillors because this was beyond their control. “On Friday morning, eThekwini Municipally restored the cables that were damaged. The problem that we are facing is not knowing when they will blow up again as the weather is still hot.” EThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela supported her statement saying that in some instances, there are repeated faults on the same network, such as the cable fault between Glenwood Major and Hunt Road, that has failed yet again.”We currently have 20 mini substations in Musgrave covering the Botanic, Ritson, Mansfield, and all the way towards Curry Road. We further have an additional 23 mini substations in Glenwood extending from Bulwer towards Lancers Road,” said Mayisela. Clayton said herself along with ward 27 councillor Ernest Smith and ward 33’s Mmabatho Tembe worked hand in hand with the department.“The infrastructure is faulting at different points across the city, at weak points and substations. The problem is the system is more than 50 years old. We are sitting with some of the oldest infrastructure in the country. The system is not designed to be turned on and off all the time. I believe the municipality is not able to keep up with the faults. I question whether the procurement process is working fast enough to provide technicians on the ground with parts when needed. Technicians are doing the best they can with what they have,” said councillor Ernest Smith.Smith said that he understands resident’s frustrations, but appeal to them to be patient and mindful of the fact that the infrastructure is old and not being maintained. Earlier this week on Facebook, chairperson of the Berea Sector, Des Moodley posted that it had come to their attention that several sub-stations are being blown all over Durban. Once it is repaired it is being sabotaged yet again, according to Moodley. “The municipality has been told to ignore calls and they refuse to give reference numbers. Certain areas have had no electricity since Monday, 14 January. The municipality is doing their utmost best to hide it from main stream media. “We urge all to come forward and demand that this matter be taken seriously. One of the activists will be on east coast radio this afternoon to address this issue. We need to show our support and demand media attention. Kindly forward this msg and make our voices heard.  “Reporters need to investigate and extreme measures need to be taken to bring those responsible forward so justice can be served and the community saved. The government must act fast,” he posted. Mayisela denied rumours of sabotage saying there were no acts of sabotage under investigation. He said power had been restored to most areas and asked residents to be patient while units responded to call-outs. To report outages contact 076 791 2449 or email eservices@durban.gov.za