Men who impregnate girls under the age of 16 will be charged for statutory rape. This stern warning has come from KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu as part of new sweeping changes that will see tighter application of existing legislation. Simelane-Zulu, who describes statutory rape as a form of gender-based violence, says that under the new dispensation, paying “reparations” for the “damage” caused to young pregnant girls will not absolve offenders against prosecution. This came after Simelane-Zulu congratulated the province’s Christmas Day mothers. “We are worried about the ages of some of the mothers. The likelihood is that a 14-year-old mother could have been impregnated at the age of 13. That is statutory rape. As the government of KwaZulu-Natal, we have taken a stand against gender-based violence,” said the MEC. “We are under instruction from the premier to implement relevant programmes in that regard. And we believe pregnancies such as these are a form of gender-based violence. We are going to start implementing the law. The Department of Health, along with our counterparts at Social Development and SAPS, will have to come in and ensure that the perpetrators are apprehended. There’s just no way a 14-year-old could have consented to sex, regardless of what is being said. We call on our communities to stop this tendency of accepting ‘damages’, because we know that in some areas, once a perpetrator realises their victim is pregnant, they suddenly come to the family and pay ‘reparations.’ That is against the law. Whether you’ve paid damages or not, it is against the law,” said Simelane-Zulu. She said that the law will be “fully implemented” as this problem needs to be curbed. “If we don’t start now, it means it’s going to continue. It is killing the fibre of our society. Can you imagine a 14 year-old falling pregnant? That destroys her life. Even if the father is 18-years-old, as in this case, having sex with a 13-year-old is just deplorable. It is statutory rape. The law says anyone below 16 cannot consent to having sex. “Men must understand that at that particular age, whether you say the child ‘agreed’ or not, it is still rape. And you must be charged as a rapist. And we are going to push. Half the time, the people who impregnate girls below 16 are way older than them, they are in their 20s, 30s, and 40s. They sometimes infect them with diseases,” she said.