The Department of Basic Education recently released matric 2019 results. This marked a new era for 2019 matrics, with some of them furthering their studies and some venturing into different avenues that are available for post-matriculants. Those that will be furthering their studies will be faced with numerous challenges in adapting to the new environment. Tabloid Newspapers took to the streets to find out what the public had to say to the 2019 matrics about their new journey. Anelisa Hams In whatever institution you go to, be it a TVET college or university you must never forget who you are and why you left home to study. Stay true to yourself and don’t be pressurised by pretty material things.Whatever decision you take, think it through and let it come from your heart and always trust your instincts. Stay dedicated and always be calm. Choose friends with good intentions. Study and work hard. Don’t rush into relationships. Always engage in protected sex. If you’re a girl, go to your nearest campus clinic and seek for contraceptives in order to avoid pregnancy. Always ensure you use dual protection and I wish you all the best. Sibulelo DlaminiI wish to say to the matric class of 2019 there are people who are going to want to belittle you and tell you, that you being in university, does not mean you have made it in life. Pay no attention to them, you have worked hard to get to where you are, and need no one to be negative about that. You are going to be bullied and told your a “fresher” because you don’t drink alcohol or use drugs. Stay strong and don’t do anything that will jeopardise your future just to please friends. May you always strive to be the best and I wish you all the luck. Nikashni NaidooAlways be consistent in whatever you’re studying.Yes, university will be one the most amazing experiences of your life. However, stay focused on the main reason your studying. Find a good balance of between your academic and your social life. Ismael KaziChoose a course your passionate about because if you choose a course based on just availability, you are going to find it strenuous because its not what you love. University life is different, exciting and has all the glitz and glam but do not be caught up. Stay focused. Natasha PetersFollow these three rule, Be yourself, never procrastinate and have fun. Know who you are and what you ought to achieve in university or college. Making friends doesn’t mean changing who you are. Find friends that will not change you but who will contribute to a better you. Never procrastinate, your school work is your first priority and the earlier you complete your assignments, is the more you will have time to love, play and have fun. Brian Ryan You are going to undergo change. Now, the change can be good or bad. So, make sure you attract good change. Independency is hard but it’s something everyone has to go through. In the process of you being independent, you are going to make mistakes, but just make sure it’s not mistakes that will permanently damage your future.