As a self-made man and finalist for the Mr India South Africa 2020 competition, Durban born Shahabaaz Mohamed, is very hungry to make a difference in both the business and modelling world. Springfield Weekly Gazette caught up with the young enthusiastic and self motivated Mohamed to find out more about his life and passion. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG):
Who is Shahabaaz Mohamed? Shahabaaz Mohamed (SM):
He is a simple, friendly, happy go lucky, pretty normal 27-year-old, guy. SWG: What do you do for a living and what led you to do that? SM: Currently I am the head of operations via the digital platform for a retail firm because I have a passion for the modern online world and its almost endless avenues of possibilities SWG: Tell us about your journey as a model? SM: Honestly, it was a dream of mine
since a very young age. But due to circumstances, I did not follow my passion for modelling until Danny Moodliar of Absolute Models opened up the door for me to break into the industry.
SWG: Are you involved in any community projects, if yes, which ones and please share your experiences? SM: Yes I give my time to promoting the game of cricket and by doing so I help people channel their energy in a positive way rather than turning to substance abuse or any other form of negative activities . SWG: Who inspires you the most and why? SM: My biggest inspiration is My late dad. He single handedly raised three children, and even went to bed hungry at times just to make sure we did not. He never turned away the poor seeking assistance no matter how little he may have had and he always instilled good morals and values on his children which we carry with us through life. SWG: What book are you currently reading? SM: Currently with a busy schedule I
am not reading any books, however,
when I do have time I do a bit of reading online. SWG: What is your favourite movie and why? SM: I don’t have a favourite movie. I do however, have a favourite genre though,
which is “Superhero Fiction”. SWG: What do you prefer doing in your leisure time? SM: In my leisure time I love jogging on the beach, watching and playing cricket and football, I love video games, culinary art and a relaxing night indoors with popcorn and a movie is an excellent option as well. SWG: What is your favourite dish and why? SM: I have not one but two favourite dishes those are burgers and the traditional curry and rice. There is no particular reason but overtime the former has changed but the traditional helps keep me grounded to my roots. SWG: How are you coping with the Covid-19 pandemic? SM: Besides having to sanitise, wear a mask and social distance, life has been pretty much back to normal for me since level four. SWG: Tell us about some of your achievements? SM: At 25, I had already rebranded a
multi-million rand company, and as a self thought graphic designer that was an amazing achievement. After about just 10 months at my current employment, I was promoted to head the company’s digital department. SWG: How has your journey as a public figure taught you about life? SM: Being in the public eye has taught
me that there is more to life outside my comfort zone and it taught me to be more self-aware as a lot more eyes are on me as a public figure. SWG: What do you spend most of your life doing? SM: It’s pretty much routine for me, work, family and my charitable activities are my priority, I also try and throw in some of my favourite activities every now and then. SWG: What is your message to the public who wish to follow in your footsteps? SM: Remember, tomorrow will never come. Never think you are not worthy or cannot do it, never put yourself down, follow
your passion, fight for your dream and
start working towards success from today.