The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) and the Congress of South African Students (Cosas) has rejected the Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga’s announcement that all pupils rewrite the two leaked grade 12 examination papers and are instead going to court. Cosas has further called on the South African Human Rights Commission to launch an investigation into the matter and called on pupils to boycott the re-write. Motshekga announced on Friday, 4 December that pupils who wrote the National Senior Certificate (Matric) mathematics and physical science papers will rewrite due to a leakage. The mathematics paper 2 will be written on 15 December and the physical science paper 2 will be written on 17 December. In a statement released on 5 December, Sadtu said that they are seeking legal action against the Department of Basic Education (DBE) and examinations quality assurer Umalusi. “Sadtu will, on Monday, 7 December, file an urgent court application to interdict the department’s decision,” read the statement. Sadtu said DBE consulted with the unions and Sadtu and the majority of unions were against the decision and consensus was reached. However, Umalusi did not agree and the decision to rewrite was taken. “Sadtu believes the decision to have all pupils doing mathematics and physical science rewrite is ‘unfair and premature’ because the investigation has not been concluded. Based on the initial investigation which has shown that the number of pupils who may have seen the paper are less than 200 out of the 390 000 who wrote the paper, there is no basis for a national rewrite,” said Sadtu. Sadtu said that preparing for the matric examinations under Covid-19 conditions and the pupils mental health and readiness for rewrite is a big issue. Mugwena Maluleke, Sadtu general secretary, said the decision has left many pupils and teachers distraught and frustrated. “It undermines the work of our teachers and pupils who worked under difficult circumstances due to Covid-19. Pupils are being punished for something that is not of their making as only a few saw the paper,” Maluleke said. Meanwhile, Cosas called the decision to rewrite “arrogance of the highest order by the department.” In a statement on 4 December, Cosas said: “After the leakage of the papers, the department has not consulted any stakeholder to chant a way forward. The student governing body, parents and unions were set very far from the boardroom in what we believe was a ‘well orchestrated plan to loot money out of the State’s coffers’ as the very same immoral company is awarded an opportunity to print even more thousands of question papers. Both the company and their friends in the department have failed to protect the paper from leaking.” Cosas said that the pupils were never at the center of leaking the question papers but the department and Umalusi have failed to protect the dignity of pupils by contracting a company which placed the pupils under stress and trauma. This distracted pupils from condensing the rest of their exams as they feared that they would be arrested or penalized. “The Department has not apologized to the pupils for the mess they have created but instead dictate our pupils back to the classroom to rewrite the paper even when some have already returned their textbooks, ” said Cosas. Cosas called the issue “state capture” and called upon Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to investigate the relations of the printing company and the department’s officials following the huge desperation of reprinting question papers. Cosas also called for the immediate dismal and termination of the printing company. ” We call upon all pupils to not go to the exam rooms as they did not initiate any leakage and they have freely written the papers ready as they were. We will also be taking the department to court for negligence and maladministration,” said Cosas.