United Nations (UN) Women said that lockdown measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease gave rise to an alarming upsurge in violence against women and children. The organization called gender-based violence (GBV) a veritable “shadow pandemic” and said that prior to Covid-19, violence against women was already one of the most widespread violations of human rights. To kickstart 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children, members of Lifeline Newcastle, a community-based organisation which helps GBV victims, held demonstrations at the Allen Street intersection on 25 November. The 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children is an annual international campaign that commences on 25 November (International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women) and concludes on 10 December (International Human Rights Day). The campaign aims to challenge perpetrators of violence to change their behaviour, involve men in helping eradicate violence and provide survivors with information on services and organisations that can help lessen the impact of violence on their lives. The official commemoration of 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children Campaign 2020 commenced across the nation by the raising of the South African Flag to half-mast on 25 November. This year’s 16 Days campaign was observed under the theme “Women’s Economic Justice for a Non-Violent and Non-Sexist South Africa”. To mark the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children campaign, President Cyril Ramaphosa held an interactive session with civil society formations. The virtual interactive session comprised the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) on Gender-Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF), representatives from the men’s sector, survivors of gender-based violence, leaders of faith communities and civil society organisations. The dialogue provided a platform for government and civil society to engage on issues raised by communities; discuss objectives of the campaign, and deliberate on the national strategic plan on GBVF. Ramaphosa said: “The fight to end gender-based violence is both simple and highly complex. It is simple because violence against women and children can be brought to an immediate end if every man makes a conscious decision never to harm a woman or a child – and lives by that decision. But we know that the path to that point is not straightforward. We know it is chauvinistic and sexist attitudes that lead men to believe they are superior to their mothers, their wives and partners and their daughters.”
LifeLine Pietermaritzburg (Pmb) has a satellite office in Newcastle. Sinikiwe Biyela, Director of LifeLine Pmb said that in the last seven months (April-October) LifeLine has supported 1243 new GBV survivors in Amajuba district. “These are not just numbers, they are real people with real emotions and feelings. Gender-based violence is like an infected wound that will not heal unless it’s treated. Perpetrators are not scared of the law, women are being beaten up while they have protection orders in their bags. As service providers we need to ask ourselves hard questions. Are we doing enough to end the scourge of gender-based violence? For this 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children, we demand actions, and no more talking from all the service providers.” Meredith Berger, a victim of GBV who is now an activist for women’s rights, says that although a lot still needs to be done to eradicate this ongoing problem, she welcomes the 16 Days of Activism and hopes that women across the globe would use this platform as their voice. “Women need to stand together to end the violence and end the silence. Too many are suffering in silence as they worry about the opinions of others and the impact that speaking up will have on their families. Remember the more you stay silent, the more you are showing your daughters that GBV is acceptable. Find an organisation in your area and stand up for yourself. If I had not taken a stand, I can say that I would not be here today,” said Berger. She also urged men to support the campaign by wearing a white ribbon during this 16-day period as it is a symbol of peace and symbolises the commitment of the wearer to never commit or condone violence against women and children. Meanwhile, Mbali Khumalo, 33, from Dannhauser, a gender-based violence survivor, gave her harrowing testimonial. She said her partner not only beat her up but also burnt her ID, matric certificate and other important documents, making it incredibly difficult to secure employment. Her advice to other women is: “Leave at the slightest indication of abuse”. Here’s to strong women. May we know them. May we be them. May we raise them.
If you are a victim of GBV and need help, or want more information contact the Lifeline office on 033 342 4447 extension 255/226.