Three Ezakheni best friends, Lungelo Zwane, 27, Thalente Ziqubu, 17,  and Mandla Dlamini, 17, were tragically shot and killed outside the front gate of Zwane’s home on 19 November, in D section. “All I heard was repeated explosion sounds before neighbours started screaming to come and see Lungelo and his friends are dead,” said Zandile Mbatha, who is still overcome with shock. This is a double-blow for Mbatha who more than a week ago watched as the factory where she worked burn to the ground and now she watched her cousin die. “I don’t know
what God’s plan is and I guess I will never understand,” wept Mbatha, who told The Ladysmith Herald, that not only did she watch her place of employment go up in flames, but watched her cousin die at her gate.   “Lungelo was not just a family member to me, but my son. I have been taking care of him for the last 11 years. It was my son that died,” said Mbatha. Lungelo had lost both of his parents at a young age and she took on the responsibility to care for him. “We were both devastated about the fire that had completely destroyed the factory that I had been working for over 15 years. Lungelo kept on telling me that God has a plan and that He will take care of us and I should not worry, but have faith.” Mbatha had been working at Derlon Spinning Factory, when a blaze completely ripped through the factory and business premises on 14 November. Mbatha had worked her way up from a machine operator to a secretary. Little did Mbatha know that after the the blaze, that had left over 410 people without work, that she will be planning a funeral as well. “It was me, my four-year-old son and Lungelo that had been staying together in this home.” Mbatha said that Lungelo and his two friends would always sit outside and talk about church or their studies, as all three were studying together.  “Lungelo had failed subjects in the last year of schooling and was working to re-write them, so the two friends, who had been at school, would advise and help with study material.” Mbatha said that Lungelo would do anything for her and her son. “He and his friends were not a part of any gangs and were never in trouble, they would attend church every Sunday and assist with the youth groups.” Police told The Ladysmith Herald that no arrests have been made and the armed suspects are unknown. “The motive of the killing is also unknown at this stage,” said police. Mbatha said that during that night, she could hear the voices of Lungelo and his friends as they were saying good-bye and making arrangements to meet for church, when the gunshots just rang out. “I dropped to the floor with my son and we just laid there, until everyone had gone quiet and then the people next door started screaming, calling me.” Mbatha explained that her pavement in front of her home was caked in blood. “Who and why would someone do this, these boys did nothing to no one why would you want
to kill them in such a manner are the families of the other two youngesters is not doing
well,” said Mbatha. Families in the area are preparing for funerals when they are suppose to be preparing for christmas celebrations.