In line with the 16 Days of Activism For No Violence Against Women and Children, the Jes Foord Foundation is spreading the message that support is available to victims of sexual abuse. Since the commencement of the campaign, foundation facilitators have been in communities encouraging the importance of speaking out, counselling, and driving across the very important message of consent. “Our focus has been with the youth. We pack and deliver 400 rape comfort bags to our Thuthuzela Centres,” said Trish Gillespie from the Foundation. With the foundation’s founder, Jes Foord being a rape survivor herself, the JFF gives motivational talks to schools and organisations, and improves education about rape among men and boys, as well as women and girls. JFF is built on a sad story turned positive when she was gang raped by four men. It was a Sunday afternoon in March 2008 when Foord and her father were walking their dogs to a small dam in Hillcrest. They were attacked by a group of men who beat and tied up Foord’s dad before forcing him to watch his daughter being gang raped. It was after then when she realised that she had a choice to let this traumatic experience destroy her, or to become a rape survivor. She remembers thinking: “You have taken my body, but you will never take me.” Foord decided to turn this into a positive story by establishing the JFF. “I formed the foundation to help restore lives after rape by way of a number of initiatives and activities designed to change rape victims into rape survivors. I want to educate people and help them realise that there is life after rape,” said Foord. The foundation has four branches that deals with different things. The Handbag and Kiddie bag project: this is something that is very personal to all survivors. When someone is raped they should report same to the police and go to the nearest hospital / Thuthuzela care centre to get the rape kit done. Foord said she saw that this process was dehumanising and that not enough was done to comfort girls, woman and children during this time so she developed the rape survivor kit. In each kit there is items such as sanitary pads, underwear, shampoo, deodorant, toothpaste and toothbrushes and in the kiddies packs there are those items plus items such as plush toys, colouring books and crayons – all of the things that are comforting for a child. Foord said that doing awareness talks at schools is important to both boys and girls to teach them the meaning of consent, appropriate sexual behaviour and ownership of actions. “These talks can start as far as primary school, teaching kids consent, where it is not appropriate to be touched and who to contact should something happen to them. We also do counselling which is free to the public but need sponsors as the counsellor’s time is precious. These sessions are done in rural areas, in hospitals at homes and at the JFF home-base,” Foord said. The last pillar of the foundation is their mentorship programme. They take a group of boys that are on the cust, who are from poor and underprivileged backgrounds and they teach them about leadership and how to be a man without hurting others. This gives these boys confidence, people to rely on and creates a good man that in the end with pass on the torch in the future so that we can stop the rape epidemic we have. JFF relies on donations from companies and individuals who have the urge to bring hope to hundreds of people going through the harrowing aftermath of rape. During these 16 Days of Activism, the JFF awareness facilitator are out in the communities imparting the important messages of rape, they have been as far as Howick, Scottburg and Inanda. “We are a small team and therefore only able to do so much with regards to reaching our communities. If there is a donor who would like to sponsor one of our awareness programmes within a specific community they are welcome to drop an email to Jes at admin@jff.com,” said Gillespie.