Africa’s MTB team, PYGA-Euro Steel, will have their full contingent out in force when they take to the Southern Drakensburg for the upcoming Euro Steel Drak Descent in partnership with FNB from 30-31 January. The team recently completed the delayed KAP that saw the PYGA-EURO Steeln one team of Philip Buys and Matthys Beukes finish second behind the DSV Pro Cycling duo of Arno du Toit and Gert Heyns. Pieter du Toit and Francois Theron, who made up the PYGA-Euro Steel 2 team, rode to fifth overall in the sani2c that was curtailed by weather, and meant that the famous drop into the Umkomaas Valley on the second Queen stage was cancelled as the stage became a neutral one. According to Euro Steel Descent, the Drak Descent has become an important event for many professional mountain bike riders, however there is more to the trip for riders with the area providing them with more than just an exciting two-day ride. “We love coming to Underberg and riding on these trails because they are proper MTB trails and it’s a really fun two days of riding. The area is beautiful and it is a great way for us to start our year,” said Beukes. The team will take on the Attakawas Extreme to start their year but then it is up to Underberg for the Drak Descent which will provide another key test for the riders as they gear up for a big year of racing. Buekes said that the Drak Descent is going to be their first multi-stage race of the year so it will be good to see how they go there but it is all part of the bigger picture that will be some important stage races. “With the postponement of the Absa Cape Epic to October that means that we will have a big year leading up to that as the main focus,” he said. The PYGA-Euro Steel team are at the forefront of MTB in South Africa and will be a tough team to beat at next year’s Drak Descent with the experienced pair of Beukes and Buys leading the charge. Beukes has been with PYGA Euro Steel since its second season, and he was happy with their result at the recent sani2C and is looking forward to building on that result heading into the new year. “We were at the right level for this time of the year when we rode sani2c. We were happy with our levels but the DSV guys were just a bit stronger than us. It was a good race to have and is going to be an important part of our build-up to next year and the racing season coming up,” said Beukes.