A man who shot and killed Verulam resident Sibusiso Blessing Ncana for allegedly having an affair with his girlfriend, was found guilty of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment at Durban High Court, recently. Sinenjongo Xabendlini, 23, also received eight years for assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and for being in possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. The sentence came after the court heard how Xabendlini killed Ncana, 34, and injured his friend in Redcliffe, Verulam, on 30 November 2019. The deceased, Ncana, was with his friend when they were approached by Xabendlini, who accused both of them of having an affair with his girlfriend. At gunpoint, Xabendlini instructed both the deceased and his friend to proceed to his girlfriend’s residence. While on the way to the said location, an alteration occurred between Xabendlini and Ncana. During the alteration Ncana was shot by Xabendlini and he died on scene.
Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson said that Xabendlini further attempted to shoot the deceased’s friend, but the firearm jammed. “The deceaced’s friend managed to escape without injuries. He then ran to the police station to report the matter,” she said. A case of murder was registered at Verulam police station for further investigation. After a length investigation Xabendlini was arrested at the local taxi rank on 16 December. Ngwala said that Xabendlini was taken to the Verulam police station for further investigation. “The accused made several appearances in different courts while being held in custody. He was finally sentenced to life-imprisonment for murder, ten years for possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition, three years for assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and five years for attempted murder,” she said. Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, provincial police commissioner, praised the detectives for a quality investigation and well-prepared docket presented to the court, which led to the conviction and sentence handed to the accused.