“The Class of 2020, their teachers and parents should take solace in the Council of Education (CEM’s) decision that the mathematics paper 2 and physical science paper 2 will not be rewritten on 15 and 17 December, “ said Angie Motshekga, Department of Basic Education Minister (DBE). Motshekga’s announcement came hot in the heels of Judge Norman Davis’s ruling in the North Gauteng High Court on 11 December that “the decision to rewrite was irregular, unlawful, should be reviewed and set aside.” The DBE issued a statement on 12 Decembersupporting the court’s ruling “that the Class of 2020 have been confronted by challenges caused by Covid-19 and it would be unfair to subject them, their teachers and parents to further uncertainties and exacerbate theanxieties they face.” DBE further said that the court did not address the “credibility, integrity and fairness of the 2020 National Senior Certificate (NSC) examination, taking into account the compromise of the exams.” CEM directed the Department to urgently continue the investigation into the leaked papers, alongside the Hawks. South African Democratic Teachers Union (SADTU), Afriforum, a civil rights group and others urgently petitioned the court last week to set aside the decision of the DBE that a nationwide rewrite of the two leaked papers take place. The Court heard that 339 000 pupils sat for the maths P2 and 282 000 pupils sat for the physical science P2. The court also heard how pupils endured challenges due to Covid-19. Some of the hardships students  would encounter were that pupils and their families already made arrangements for when they wrote the last subject; many pupils dwelling in hostels returned to their homes or home provinces andtravelling back to rewrite the papers would increase their exposure to Covid-19; many returned their text books to schools and destroyed their notes; many pupils who were required to rewrite were scheduled to write papers on the morning of 15 December (visual arts) and the preceding day (information technology) and the time period given to pupils to rewrite the papers were too short. Sadtu claimed that the DBE minister was held to ransom by Umalusi who demanded that the papers be rewritten or the exams would not be certified as compliant. Sadtu said the pupils have not “touched” the maths and physical science papers as their attention was taken up by other subjects. The maths and physical science papers require practice to keep mentally and academically “fit in them” which would result in underperformance if the rewrite went ahead. The underperformance would reflect on the quality of education, educator and schools which would impact the allocation of resources to schools. The applicants argued that it was premature to order a rewrite before the actual extent of the leak was established because the investigation was not concluded. Judge Davis ruled the decision for rewrite “Is one which no reasonable person would have taken, when all the facts are considered. The attempted justification of these dates furnished by the DG, in answer to all the prejudices raised by the applicants, namely that these prejudices to be suffered amount to a mere ‘inconvenience’ or ‘smokescreen’ smacks of callousness.” The court ruled that the decision to rewrite was procedurally irregular and should be reviewed and set aside. “195 pupils out of 339 000 pupils who wrote the maths paper translate to less than 0,06 percent. The percentage is even lower in respect of the physical science paper 2. The conclusion by Umalusi that such a negligible percentage has so irrevocably damaged the integrity of the two papers that it cannot be certified cannot be sustained,” said the judge. The court further said there is no rational basis why the proposals by all stakeholders that a final decision should only be taken once the further investigations have been concluded, should not be the way to go. The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) welcomed the court’s decision and felt vindicated. “As a representative of the teachers to whom pupils are entrusted, we could not divorce the union from the interest of both learners and teachers,” said Mugwena Maluleke, general secretary.