No arrests have been made in the Croftbury murder case where the body of a man was found wrapped in a duvet and dumped in a stream, on Croftbury Drive, on Monday evening. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said: “The Community Service Centre received a complaint of an alleged body at Croftbury Drive that was lying in a stream. The victim was reported as an Indian male aged between 35-40 years-old who was covered in a duvet cover. The motive for the killing is unknown at the moment. No arrests have been made.” The victim, according, to police, remains, unknown. Local security companies also responded to the scene together with emergency medical services. According to GBH Security, their response officer was flagged down whilst on patrol by members of the public at Croftbury Drive next to the school. “Members of public
advised that there was what looked like a body in the stream. Upon further investigation by the GBH Security response officer, he discovered that it was a body, and it was wrapped and bound in red material and laying in the stream. No identification could be provided upon the recovery due to the decomposed state of the body,” the GBH Facebook post stated. KZN VIP Security and Medical spokesperson, Gareth Naidoo said: “The body was retrieved from the river by SAPS Search and Rescue with KZN VIP. Anyone with a missing male relative that fits
the description provided by police should contact Phoenix SAPS.” Phoenix Community Police Forum (CPF) chairman, Umesh Singh, said: “There is a lot of speculation surrounding the murder at this point. Sadly, another murder has occurred
in our town and more violence has been unleashed. We urge police to investigate thoroughly and find the perpetrators behind this shocking crime. “Community members are implored to seek help when confronted with volatile or challenging situations instead of reacting in anger and violence. There are many organisations, including religious institutions that can offer assistance to prevent a life from being lost or the consequences that follow.”