“I’m back, stronger, better and ready to serve,” these were the words of Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader Patrick Pillay, following a major quintuple heart bypass in October. “I have survived this phase and have made great progress because of my outstanding heart surgeon Dr D Rajaruthnam and his team, the mass prayers from the thousands of people, including family, friends, all religious leaders, their congregations and the community at large. Today, I can categorically state that my recovery was miraculous and divine,” said councillor Pillay. In October, when Patrick Pillay’s wife Khatija made an earnest appeal to the community to pray for her husband after he had to undergo a major heart operation, this set into motion thousands of people praying in their own faith for his safe and speedy recovery. “I was overwhelmed by the support from everyone who were sending motivational messages and was praying for my family and I to have the strength to overcome this sensitive phase of our lives. I can now confirm with the community that I’m back, stronger, better and ready to serve,” added Pillay. Specialist Cardio-Thoracic Surgeon, Dr D Rajaruthnam stated: “It has been a privilege for my team and myself to assist in the well-being and care of community stalwart, Pillay. He has made a remarkable recovery from his recent surgery. I now return this great leader to the community to continue his social services. He is in great shape to serve with distinction as always. God bless Pillay and all the people he serves.” Pillay’s, wife Khatija Nabi said: “Everybody plans to live their lives to the fullest and not plan for their illness or death. So when my husband suddenly became ill and had to be hospitalised, it came as great shock to us as a family, hence I had earnestly called upon the community to pray for my husband’s speedy recovery, for I believed that the power of prayer would never fail and will lead Patrick to greater healing. “As a family we are truly humbled and appreciative of the medical team led by Dr Rajaruthnam, families, friends, religious †leaders and the community at large for their overwhelming support, prayers and encouragement provided over the last few weeks. This has tremendously helped make Patrick’s road to recovery and our journey in life so much better.” Retired principal of Foresthaven Secondary, Mrs Naidoo expressed: “I’m so glad Councillor Patrick Pillay has made such a speedy recovery. A large part of this recovery can, I’m sure, be attributed to the prayers of individuals in the community he serves so passionately. He works with the poor and downtrodden. He is their voice. Patrick needs to take care of himself so that he can serve his community.” Community activist, Shadrach Bikhari said: “We are grateful to God for having the DLC leader Patrick Pillay in our lives. He has served us well, selflessly, without fear or favour. If anything were to have happened to him, it would have been a great loss to our community. We are happy that Patrick Pillay is upbeat, healed and ready to serve. May God always protect and guide him, his family and the DLC.” Some of the well-wishes received from the community to Councillor Patrick Pillay were: “Your work and worth is appreciated.”, “Just focus on getting well, your community awaits you.”, “God bless, we are all praying for you, including our spiritual.”, “Councillor Pillay will be back with his great and ardent contribution for our people at large.” , “Soon we must respect our great leader, he is a great gem.”, “Patrick must take great care as God will be his great and divine saviour.”,”God will work miracles because he is our strength.”