As the 16 Days Of Activism For No Violence Against Women and Children comes to 
an end today, gender-based violence continues everyday. To continue its fight against the scourge, Durban Central SAPS officially launched its victim friendly centre (VFC), a safe haven for abused victims. The centre has always been operational, however, according to Sergeant Zanele Khomo, DBN central SAPS spokesperson, it lacked that welcoming feel. “Boxer Superstores together with Crossroads KZN sponsored some items to make the facility feel homey and comfortable, creating a safe space for abused victims to speak freely and openly,” said Khomo. She said that the VFC assists police to interview victims of rape or for any other serious crimes since most people don’t feel comfortable to be interviewed at the station in front of everybody. “They need privacy in order to give statements freely. In cases where victims have been interviewed and in the process of taking them for medical assistance, VFC is used to keep them,” Khomo. According to Khomo, any person can be kept at the facility including children who are found lost in the Durban CBD while they search for parents. The room is equipped with couches, toys, blankets, books and magazines, comfort packs for women and toiletries. It also accommodates both male and female victims. Khomo said that they are hoping that victims of abuse will come forward knowing there is a safe space for them to talk. “We are hoping that people would take this facility as a safe haven to report abuse cases,” Khomo said. She said that as the festive season reaches its peak, they are inundated with lost children and urge parents and the public at large to be safe at all times and also take all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “We also urge the public to not be silent when they see crime or any form of abuse. Use our Crime Stop number 086 001 0111 and the good thing about it is that you can remain anonymous and we will take the necessary steps to help,” said Khomo. She thanked the station commander Colonel G Paramasur for allowing and supporting this initiative. “Thank you to our sponsors as well Boxer Superstores and Crossroads KZN for their amazing gesture,” added Khomo. Jason McCall, marketing communications liaison for Boxer superstores said that they are proud to once again assist the SAPS, as they have done over many years, in the fight to end GBV and help women and children affected by crime. “We applaud the many men and women of Durban SAPS who guard and care for the many citizens of eThekwini. We hope that this facility offers peace and sanctuary for those who require it,” McCall said. To donate or report any crime or if you need assistance from Durban Central SAPS, contact 031 655 4509.