The joint efforts between Chatsworth SAPS and the Chatsworth Community Policing Forum united the community on the weekend as they rallied together to conduct a motorcade against the abuse of women and children in a show of solidarity with the victims of gender-based violence (GBV). The event, held on Saturday, commemorated 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children under the theme ‘Men Holding Men Accountable.’ Brigadier Kevin James, SAPS Chatsworth station commander, led the campaign from the Chatsworth Stadium along with a host of organisations including the CPF and Crime Sector Forums, the Victim Friendly Facility, SAPS Chatsworth Youth Desk, eThekwini and Child Welfare Chatsworth. Security companies and tow truck companies also threw their weight behind the campaign by turning up in their number at the event and the motorcade, which saw Chatsworth come alive on the weekend. Captain Cheryl Pillay, Chatsworth SAPS communications officer, said that the community painted the stadium orange with their attire alongside the members in blue. “Side by side, the residents of Chatsworth witnessed a show of solidarity that together, we can end the scourge against the abuse of women and children,” she said. As the police vehicles, metropolitan vehicles, patrollers and the helicopter hovered over the community of Chatsworth, it was synonymous with the appeal made by the President Cyril Ramaphosa, who referred to gender-based violence and femicide as a second pandemic which needed to end. Pillay said: “The releasing of orange balloons into the atmosphere should encourage women to remain joyful. Let your womanhood release warmth, also search within yourself to break free from abuse. You are not alone, speak out and join other survivors of abuse. You are worthy so let your voice be a testimony which will have a ripple effect on those who hide violence.” Brigadier James appealed to the community to reach out to the hands that are extended towards victims of GBVF from the Chatsworth police station. He said: “Silence hides violence, join hands with police and the community policing forum by breaking the silence of abuse.” His message was echoed by Charles Stephen, the acting chairman of the Chatsworth CPF, who reiterated their motto which is “If you see something, do something.” Stephen called upon society to break the silence and act by reporting violence and criminality that they witness. The Chatsworth Victim Friendly Facility at the Chatsworth Police Station offers counselling and spiritual guidance. Contact the Chatsworth Victim Friendly Facility, Vees Haripersad on 031 451 4229.