As the 16 Days of Activism of No Violence Against Women and Children campaign gains momentum globally, another young mother was brutally murdered and locked inside her bathroom at her Overport flat, on Saturday night. Sherne Pillay, 27, was found with multiple bruises and a cable tie strapped around her neck. Her partner, Ebrahim Chohan, 37, was arrested shortly after he discovered Pillay’s body. He appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday where he broke down before Magistrate Vanitha Armu claiming that there were others who saw what happened to Pillay. According to reports, it is alleged that Chohan left Pillay at the flat at about 10am and returned at about 7pm where he found her (Pillay) locked inside the bathroom. It is further alleged that Chohan claims he could not gain access to the bathroom and called his father who brought a locksmith. The locksmith is said to have forced the door open. Reports allege that the deceased Pillay was found lying flat on her back. It was also reported that she was strapped on the neck with a cable tie. It is alleged that the suspect (Chohan) and his father, together with neighbours removed Pillay from the bathroom floor and placed her onto the bed. The suspect used a pair of scissors and cut the cable ties. Reports indicate the deceased had facial injuries and bruises. Paramedics were allegedly called at 9.45pm and Pillay was certified deceased. Chohan was arrested for murder and detained at Berea SAPS. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele said: “Berea SAPS is investigating a case of murder. It is alleged on 28 November at 10.50pm, a body of a 27-year-old woman was found with injuries on the body. She was certified dead by the paramedics. A 37-year-old suspect was placed under arrest.” One of the first responders at the horrific crime scene and head of Health and Safety at eThekwini Municipality, Des Moodley slammed the heinous crime and called for greater intervention from government to step up the drive to educate communities about gender-based violence (GBV) and implement sound measures for surviving victims of GBV. “Tragically, we were unable to reach out to Sherne Pillay and offer her help. Her life was snuffed out in an onslaught of gross violence. The perpetrator behind her killing will be dealt with by the justice system,” Moodley said. Social media was flooded with messages of shock, horror and condolences for the slain Pillay amidst the hype about GBV. Pillay’s mother and the father of her child shared heart-wrenching messages mourning her death and expressing their love for her. The child’s father posted that Pillay was planning their son’s birthday just days before she was murdered. “If I only knew that it would be the last time I would see u ..I would have hugged u a little bit tighter..I  would have shown u this pic so that u could always remember the joy in our sons smile whenever we were together…I will do my best to raise our son the best l can and make sure that ur memory lives on for as long as we live…rest well heartbeat..I will always love u,” Pillay’s former partner shared. “My babygirl taken away from me so soon…I never thought would have to let go of you in this way..it difficult to describe how I’m feeling at this point..I got to be strong cos it how you would want me to be…I keep this thinking that you are going to walk through the door n call out for me…its like I’m waiting for that to happen but I know it will never ever happen again…I will leave no stones unturned in bringing Eb to justice..love you my baby,” Pillay’s heartbroken mother posted. The case has been remanded until next week when Chohan will re-appear in court with his attorney to make a bail application. Meanwhile, Moodley is calling for an intervention by the powers that be in government to strengthen the infrastructure in the fight against GBV and eliminate the massive problem of a lack of places of safety for GBV victims. “Lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the extreme violence that occurred behind closed doors. National statistics exhibit that the numbers spiked. Situations uncovered triggers leading to violent displays of behaviours and acting out in a fit of rage. We lost a young mother, we need to intervene to ensure that no other life is lost,” added Moodley.