Street vendors who have been trading outside the vicinity of the Chatsworth Centre, have voiced their concerns over the alleged harassment and threatening behaviour that they have been receiving from the mall security over the past few weeks. Samantha Nadesan, who has been a street vendor for the past 15 years, said that she is appalled at the manner in which the security at the Centre has been treating her and the other sellers who are trying to make a living. She said: “For the past few weeks the security has been targeting us. They have been chasing us away using vulgar terms and threats. They even tried to poke one of us with a stick.” Nadesan said that everyone is facing tough times in this pandemic and with the ever rising unemployment rate in South Africa, this was a means for them to earn an honest living. “Ever since my dad’s passing, I take care of my brother as well as my three kids,” said Nadesan. The management of Chatsworth Centre said that vendors trading in such areas falls under the jurisdiction of the municipality which grants them permits in certain circumstances and are therefore trading illegally. “If we have concerns regarding illegal trading in the vicinity of the centre, we liaise with the appropriate authorities and relevant departments. If any of our employees have interacted with any of the vendors in an untoward manner, it will be viewed in a serious light and we are willing to investigate any claims where we are provided with the sufficient information to do so. If anyone has any information regarding the alleged harassment, kindly provide us with the relevant details and we will look into the matter,” the Centre management said. On many occasions law enforcement had advised the vendors to get a permit as they were trading on council grounds but they were also told that it was highly unlikely to receive one. On Friday, 4 December, the vendors gathered at a traders meeting which was attended by ward 77 DA councillor, Anoop Rampersad. It was discussed at that meeting he would represent the traders and try to help them in terms of getting a permit and taking the matter of being harassed by the security guards to Chatsworth Centre’s management. Nadesan said: “It would be highly appreciated if street vendors such as myself had a space of our own to trade in peace without any conflict.”
Comment from eThekwini Municipality had yet to be received by the time of print.