Tafta on Ridge experienced an early Christmas when they received a donation of face shields, face masks, sanitisers , face towels and walking sticks from the KwaZulu-Natal International Business Association (KIBA) on Wednesday, 2 December. “The event was attended by Tafta fundraising manager Nirupa Kasserchun in the gardens of the Tafta on Ridge home in East Street, Overport. The fundraising manager took receipt of a donation from KIBA who had earlier in the week made contact with us to contribute essential PPE to our elders to help safeguard them over the festive season. The event was a ceremonial handover of the donation which included masks, screens, face cloths and some walking sticks for Tafta’s elders’,” Prevashni Naidu, Tafta’s divisional manager said. She said that in total, the stock received from KIBA was 20 000 disposable masks, 2250 3-ply fabric masks, 1614 plastic shields, 1800 plastic shields fastening clips, 30 walking sticks, three 5 litre sanitiser tubs, 10 plastic tubs and 1200 face cloths. Naidu added that Tafta’s fundraising department is currently doing a count of the full donation after which it will be distributed to the elders in their 13 homes. “We have sadly experienced our sixth Coronavirus death at Tafta, having heard this on 3 December that an elder from our Wentworth facility, John Dunn House, who was diagnosed on 2 December, passed away at the Wentworth Hospital,” Naidu said. She said that they are currently working together with the Department of Health to screen all elders in the Wentworth facility for the virus. “The threat of Covid-19 therefore remains a very real one for us at Tafta and we realise the need to remain alert even as the festive season approaches and many of our elders hope to visit with family and loved ones. For this reason, the items recently donated to us by KIBA are accepted with immense gratitude as the donation was made with the elders’ safety over the festive period in mind. We thank KIBA for reaching out to us,” Naidu added.