Durban beaches were empty today, Wednesday, 16 December following the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa to close KwaZulu-Natal beaches on certain high-usage days. This was to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 regulations in the province. Bheki Ntuli, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison accompanied by eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda and the management of the South African Police Service and other law enforcement agencies carried out an inspection on the Marine Parade promenade. Ntuli
said that it was not a “normal day” for holiday beach-goers but he is happy to see
that people are listening to president Ramaphosa. “There are very few people on the promenade and I am glad that these people are making use of their masks and keeping safe.” Mayor Kaunda said that the walkabout was to see whether people are adhering to the rules and said that the lives of South African people should always be put first.  “Even though the tourism industry has been hit hard during this pandemic, we have to ensure that the lives of our people are being put first.” He said that he is glad that even the people he has met on the promenade are happy and feel safe. Kaunda emphasised that beaches will remain closed on peak days and people need to follow the strict regulations by wearing their mask and sanitising. The closure of beaches on identified busy days is part of bold interventions by the government to curb the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to government, a comprehensive plan to secure the beaches and other public spaces has been developed. The plan will also ensure the enforcement of the curfew and other regulations, including the monitoring of the sale of alcohol and the movement of people. Meanwhile, Kaunda has informed the public that the promenade is open for jogging, cycling and walking. However, he urges everyone to unceasingly adhere to lockdown regulations that seeks to prevent the spread of the Corona virus as the country has entered the second wave of the pandemic. According to Kaunda, in response to the President’s address, the Municipality has made significant operational changes to this year’s festive season plan and operations. “The non-compliance with the prohibitions, conditions, days of opening of beaches and wearing of face masks and social distancing measures, will result in the closure of those non-complying beaches throughout the festive season. Law enforcement are doing regular patrols to ensure that safety precautions are observed,” said Kaunda. He is also imploring hotels, restaurants and eateries in the townships to guard against prioritising maximising profits at the expense of their patrons and the public in general.
He said that Metro police and other law enforcement agencies are all out to ensure that regulations are adhered to in public transport as well, more especially minibus taxis that ferry the majority of residents.