Dr Zweli Mkhize, the Health Minister has announced that South Africa has entered a second wave of Covid-19 infections. Mkhize confirmed that in accordance with the scientific model,  the criteria has been met. Addressing the media on Wednesday, 9 December, Mkhize said four provinces are driving up positive Covid-19 cases. “We are now entering a second wave. Four provinces which are Western Cape, Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng are the key drivers of this new wave. We look at the number of tests done, the positivity rate, the number of positive cases, the percentage positive, the numbers of people who are admitted, and the number of fatalities. All of these together must show an indication of an increase on a week-to-week period over a seven-day period. We then conclude that there is an increase,” he said. Mkhize said up to the past week, there has been an increase in mainly Eastern Cape and Western Cape with specific districts affected. “The numbers are increasing to involve more provinces. The increases are shown in about six of the provinces and that’s why it is important for us to recognise that this is a second wave,” said Mkhize. Mkhize said as of 9 December, the majority of the new cases are from Western Cape, which makes up 30 percent of positive cases, followed by Eastern Cape (24 percent), KZN (23 percent) and Gauteng (17 percent). He said since the end of September the numbers came down to as low as 1000, but now the numbers are increasing. As of 9 December, SA has breached the 6000 mark for new cases. The total new cases are 6079. The total number of positive Covid-19 cases are 828 598 with 22 574 total deaths and 754 658 recoveries. Mkhize also raised concern over matric year-end parties acting as Covid-19 super-spreader events. “When we were on the plateau, we had a positivity rate of 10 percent. Now the rate is at 18 percent. But some provinces are much higher than the 18 percent; the 18 percent is now the average for the entire country. There is a rapid increase in KZN and Gauteng, which is exponential,” he said. Mkhize confirmed in the past few days, the age distribution has also shown a different pattern from the norm. The peak age at this period is now 15 to 19 years of age. He said this is a new issue and worrying, with the pattern being much more widespread than previously thought. Mkhize related the surge in Covid-19 cases to large parties with young people drinking alcohol, with no adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions i.e lack of social distancing, hand washing, sanitization and wearing of masks. He said that super spreader events across the country with age groups being mobile and asymptomatic, added to the rising numbers. He said if this trajectory continues, the healthcare systems will be overwhelmed and that the National Coronavirus Command Council (NCCC) will decide on the recommendations made by provinces on curtailing large gatherings and parties. Mkhize said provincial leadership has been mobilised to deal with the surge. Mkhize advised that festive season is time to relax and enjoy with families but with an understanding that we have a responsibility to enjoy with restraints. “If our enjoyment is going to lead to more people getting sick, getting admitted and even some losing lives, it is not a responsible way of enjoying ourselves. We need to prepare for a festive season with a difference,” said Mkhize. 