Yajna Ramnath is a superwoman, she is a legal secretary, student by day and an author by night, who has fifteen books under her belt. She spoke to the Phoenix Tabloid about her exciting life. Phoenix Tabloid (PT):
Tell us about your journey as a writer, how you started and at what age did you write your first book? Yajna Ramnath (YR): My journey as a writer is a little unconventional. As a child, I always had diaries and when writing in them I would always frame my day as a story. I actually had no idea I wanted to do this or that this was my passion until I wrote my first book at 18 and it sat hidden on my then desktop for years until I decided to show it to my mom. Once I was convinced that I should give publishing a shot, it was really difficult to get much support locally, I was lucky enough to find the self-publishing platform Amazon
Kindle, and at 22, I finally got the courage to write and release my book. Having a book under the erotic romance genre as my first book was received with very mixed reviews. However, I soldiered on through it. I mean… I’m still here and writing. PT: How many books have you written and published?
YR: Since I published in 2013, I have written fifteen books and published ten. I am working on the sixteen and seventeenth one simultaneously. PT: Describe your style of writing.
YR: My style varies. It always depends on what my characters want. To me, they are real people even though some may say that they are just in my head. I tend to lean on the adult side with regard to themes like romance and psychological thrillers. But honestly, it really depends on the characters and where they want to take me. PT:  Who or what has been your inspiration for writing the books?
YR: This is tricky. Each book has a different sort of inspiration. With Ophelia, I was inspired by a dream and I just had to know what her story would be. The Wreck of Our Hearts was inspired by a previous heartbreak. Books like Beneath Her Beautiful, Cross Fader, and The Option were inspired by different elements of relationships and self-doubt. The Dangerous Games Duet was inspired by a conversation my best friend and I had, we were curious as to what would happen if we could do whatever we felt like without remorse. As for Tainted Blood, books like the Chicagoland Vampires by Chloe Neill and Twilight by Stephenie Meyer inspired me to write my own vampires and werewolves. PT: Tell us about the type of books you have written so far, as well as titles.
YR: In my seven-year career as an author, I have tried out as many genres as possible. Tainted Blood was my venture into paranormal/urban fantasy. Ophelia and The Dangerous Games Duet was my walk on the wild side in the sense that I went deeper into the psychological thriller genre. The Option, The Wreck of Our Hearts and Cross Fader was lighter on the adult content and more focused on falling in love and searching for a happily-ever-after which are considered as the New Adult Genre. As for Beneath Her Beautiful, that was straight-up erotic romance. I am currently working on a book called Retreat which is my first venture into horror writing. PT: What was the first book that you wrote? favourite book? and most difficult book to write?…if ever there was one.
YR: My first book that I wrote was Tainted Blood even though that was not the first book I published. Tainted Blood is also one of my favourite books because this was the story I had started writing at eighteen and it continued to develop in my head until it was ready to go out into the world. The Option was definitely difficult to write. It was because of having to delve deep within myself and lay bare so many emotions. In fact, there were times I had to step away from my desk because it was just too much to handle. Yeah, that is intense. PT: How did you develop the love for writing and how did you discover your natural talent?
YR: This is going to sound really weird, but I discovered my talent during a moment of boredom. Yes, you read that right. I was a teenager and really, really wanted to go for a party, but I was not allowed to (boo!). I remember playing around on my old desktop and then I opened Word and I was like if you could recreate your life right now, what would it look like? Just like that, Tainted Blood poured out of me. The love for writing only grew with each passing year as more characters began speaking to me, dying to tell their stories. I’m not crazy, I swear! PT: What type of reader do your books appeal to?
YR: Honestly, if you want to go on an adventure that is filled with drama, heartache, romance, a lot of steam, happily-ever-afters, and really strong female characters… then my books are for you. PT:  What advice can you give to the younger generation out there or anyone for that matter who is interested in developing writing skills as such?
YR: Keep writing and make sure you have a strong support system! There were many times that I was criticised for the genres I chose or where I based my stories, there were many people who asked me to step away from certain topics, but with the help of some really amazing people in my life and their motivation…I did not. If you want to write erotica, go for it. If you want to write about aliens that disguise themselves as care bears, go for it. Always write for yourself first, your audience will know when you are not being true to your story. Not being true to your story also means not being true to yourself and your art. It is important to remember that any form of art makes you immortal. You will leave behind a legacy long after you have left this earth. Someday, someone is gonna pick up your work and spend a few hours letting you into their lives. Make sure it is something you are proud of.