To teach about the different dog breeds that exist and the misconceptions, the Hells Angels hosted the Pitt and Bully Day event that allowed SerendiPitty, Paw Patrol and Rescue along with other dog organisations to raise funds. The event saw different breeds of dogs being acknowledged and appreciated. Explaining the purpose of the event, Tracey Morrison, CEO of Paw Patrol Rescue said: “The Pitt and Bully day is a charity event meant to recognise the rescuers that work to save animals in need. The event came about due to the love of bullies and pitties the most dreaded according to most, but they are misunderstood by many.” Such events create awareness about power-breed dogs and help educate people on
how to care for them the way they deserve. Omashini Armoogum, Westville resident and veterinarian by profession said: “Dogs are perceptive of human emotions and can
be amazing companions and even therapeutic. There is nothing more rewarding than coming home to a wagging tail and a sloppy lick from your furry friend, it can transform your day into a happy one. Dogs sense when their humans are in need and provide emotional support for many people.” Armoogum taught about a few misconceptions about dogs and how owners can correctly take care of their dogs. “There are common misconceptions that dogs do not eat once a day, they need three times daily feeding as pups and then twice daily feeding into adulthood.  People feel they need to bath dogs weekly, this is not true. You only bath your dog when he is really dirty but monthly at the most. Dogs should not be chained,
and they do not learn with physical violence as a punishment, they learn via positive reinforcement and treats which set dogs apart,” she said. The different organisations had their stall where they sold different items to help raise funds for their organisations. “There is no real qualification needed for the stalls just the love of animals and a stall fee which covers them for the day to sell their wares and make themselves known. The proceeds are meant to be donated to a rescue organisation to assist them to continue the already good work that is being done,” said Morrison. Nicole Jack from SerendiPitty said: “We had a good day and managed to raise funds for our vet bills. Our future plans are to continue trying to home dogs in our care, and we are planning a fundraiser in the new year.” Jack said that there are so many homeless dogs, and people are struggling to care for their dogs with theb Covid-19 pandemic going on. “We are helping where we can, but it can be overwhelming, we are getting five calls a day to ask for help, and hardly any to adopt, it is heartbreaking,” she said. These different organisations rely on such events to help things run smooth and take care of dogs while they look for their new homes. “It is hard for any organisation to do what needs to be done, without the assistance of the public, vet bills climb, and food bills climb. With so many pet owners out there not being 100 percent responsible it makes our work harder to rescue, network looking for the owners then having to foster them if unclaimed and finally finding them the right forever homes.” The day ended with a parade of the dogs where they show-cased their special and needed skills, and dogs that showed extra special skills were rewarded with prizes.