South African scientists have discovered a new variant of the Covid- SARS-CoV-2 called 501.V2 variant which has recently become dominant in South Africa. The scientists believe that this new variant which is spreading rapidly is responsible for the second wave and is also contributing to the surge in positive Covid-19 cases in younger people. They said the rapid spread could mean more people will be infected in the second wave than in the first wave. Dr Zweli Mkize, Minister of Health and scientists announced thenew variant on 18 December. They explained the scientific research findings that involved scientists across South Africa.The genomics team was led by KwaZulu-Natal Research, Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP). Professor Tulio de Oliviera, Director of KRISP explained that 196 genomes were collected during the period 15 October – 25 November, from over 50 clinics in Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape and that research is ongoing. Professor Abdool Karim, South Africa’s chief advisor on Covid-19 and internationally renowned scientist and director, Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA) said scientists don’t know where the new variant originated and why, but the variant was found in Nelson Mandela Bay. He also said that it was too early to tell if the new variant is more severe or whether it is re-infecting those who were infected in the first wave. “Higher viral load means more transmissions. It is an unusual variant and is widespread,” said Karim. “There is reason for concern that we have a virus that seems to be spreading rapidly, but it is something we can deal with,” he added. Karim said similar 501 variants are seen currently in other countries such as Australia and the UK. He said more research needs to be done to determine if the new variant is more deadlier. Scientists are also uncertain of its effects on vaccines. Mkhize said that the vaccines will still be used as the first variant is still around. Mkhize warned that younger people are being affected more. He said that despite warnings youth are not wearing masks, some are intoxicated and do not care to observe the rules under the state of disaster. He called on parents and caregivers to monitor the youth to flatten the curve and save lives. “It cannot be that our youth can only adhere to lifesaving measures by being policed. We call on parents, caregivers and our youth to understand that this is not just a matter of thinking about others but you yourself are now equally at risk of dying from Covid-19, “ said Mkhize. Mkhize said: “When the situation arises, districts will be declared hotspots “ As at 20 December, the confirmed Covid-19 cases in South Africa is 921 922. The total number of deaths is 24 691 and the total recoveries is 793 914. KwaZulu-Natal has 157 432 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 3643 deaths. 124 262 people have recovered from Covid-19. Meanwhile, the United Kingdom (UK) and the Australian governments have tightened restrictions in areas where coronavirus cases are surging. UK Health secretary Matt Hancock said that restrictions were in place to control the “out of control” new variant. Other countries have been banningflights to the UK and Australia over fears of the new variant.