The Democratic Alliance has called on the provincial Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs to place the Ugu Municipality under administration as the water crisis worsens in the district. Months of dry taps and the elderly as well as the frail being forced to fetch water from long distances has led to boiling point for the popular tourism region. Allegations of sabotage and drought, have been some of the reasons that the residents of Umdoni, Umzumbe, Umuziwabantu and the Ray Nkonyeni municipalities have been given by the district for not having running water, for up to six months in some cases. Rishigen Viranna, Member of the provincial Legislature and DA Ugu South Constituency head, said that the time has come for Cogta and the SAPS to act decisively on the alleged corruption and acts of sabotage that have led to the biggest “humanitarian crisis,” in the South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal. Viranna said that they have written to the provincial police commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, calling for the SAPS to urgently intervene in the damaging of municipal infrastructure including the sabotaging of pump stations, valves and pipelines. “There have also been numerous cases of staff intimidation and the burning of at least one municipal vehicle used by a plumber. These actions have left almost 150 000 residents without water with the poor, elderly, disabled, and vulnerable the most affected. The Ugu District Municipality leadership has laid at least four cases at the Port Shepstone Police Station. There has been no feedback from investigating officers, no arrests or convictions. Due to this lack of action, these acts of sabotage have continued with impunity and have massive negative impacts on the communities of the KZN South Coast,” Viranna added. These acts of sabotage are allegedly due to disgruntled municipal employees, who were recently dismissed due to previous illegal strike action. Viranna suspicions were also reaffirmed by the Ugu District Municipality. Sizwe Ngcobo, municipal mayor, said: “While acts of vandalism on infrastructure and intimidation on working staff are still continuing, forcing thousands of residents to remain without water, the municipality remains hopeful that law enforcement authorities will put an end to such criminal elements while the municipality continues trying to restore water.” Over the past week there have been various cases of acts of sabotage. The Umzinto Waste Water Pump Station No.1 was vandalised. It is believed, vandals broke the door and security gate to gain access as electrical panel doors were illegally opened. France Zama, municipal spokesperson, said motor cables were stolen while all electrical components such as a generator, control box and cables were vandalised, resulting into raw sewerage spillages. Prior to that, the Hanover Pump Station generator room was set on fire which also affected the back-up generator. The valve on the 600 mm bulk main from Bhobhoyi plant, servicing Shelly Beach, Gamalakhe, Uvongo and Seaslopes, was closed affecting supply from the off-take.
Zama said: “The criminal element in our society that perpetuates this will destroy not only our economy but has potential to rob many residents of their basic rights to water and sanitation. While Ugu teams are busy trying to open closed valves and restore water to communities criminals continue vandalising our infrastructure.” He said that the municipality is working with law enforcement agencies in investigating the cases of sabotage with malicious intent to damage municipal infrastructure. It is alleged that past attempts to restore water to certain areas has been met with intimidation, threats and workers being followed by unknown vehicles into their homes. “The leadership of the municipality is working tirelessly toward responding to the numerous outcries of water and sanitation services coming from our residents whilst also addressing matters concerning security of our infrastructure and that of our workers. We call for patience, calm and support from residents during this period,” Zama said.