Easlyn Young, chairperson of ward 31 portfolio committee for ‘Youth, Gender and Vulnerable persons’ partnered with Heart 4 Neighbours, a non-government organisation (NGO) as well as the Sydenham SAPS in the relaunch of the “Victim Friendly Centre” at the Sydenham police station on Tuesday, 1 December. Young said that the centre was already established but due to a measure of inactivity, they had to relaunch and introduce it to the community. “My impression is that there was a lack of volunteers to sustain the intervention in crisis and on demand response. The task becomes onerous if only a few people are involved. The demands of family responsibility supersedes the heartbeat for the suffering and vulnerability of others. Thus the constant call, train and registration of volunteers is a strategic imperative,” Young said. The Victim Friendly Centre will serve as a place of refuge and comfort when one’s home no longer offers peace and safety and where violence and abuse has been experienced,and there is a call to be rescued, according to Young. She said that the facility is available to victims of gender-based violence against women, men, young adults, youth and children. “The Victim Friendly Centre aims to offer a 24/7 emergency call line. The emergency line will be scheduled on a duty roster with volunteers receiving calls and engaging with the SAPS for immediate response, there will be a minimum of 20 volunteers who will ensure regular duty cycles without any pressure. The centre also aims to offer relief in a domestic or relational crisis, first aid and transport to the hospital or clinic where the damage is severe. ‘It is also a safe space to talk and reason, there will be access to counselling and wisdom offered, a conduit for legal advice and assistance, a loving environment for children caught in the cross-fire or themselves as victims of abuse. There will also be overnight accommodation offered if and when necessary,” Young said. She said that the purpose of the centre in the community is to raise awareness that there is support for respect, dignity and justice in the process of claiming one’s rights. “The underlying impact of this centre would be to have young people and children know that there is a big brother/ big sister available, passionate and able to respond and for adults to know that there is someone they can rely on to assist with any issue.” She said that the community will benefit from having concerned and passionate citizens who will receive and track the process towards justice.
“This will be a rapid response unit that will ensure action on the pulse of a call. Primary care, privacy and confidentiality will be the ethos of the centre. There will be pro bono professional counselling services and constant monitoring and advocacy for victim-friendly empowerment,” Young said. Bernie Sookool, an active member of the Ward 31 committee and who has been proactive with the project said that helping others has always been a passion of hers and she has assisted in other victim friendly centres such as the one based in Wentworth. “I think that every community should have a victim-friendly centre because if one day, there is a lady crying out for help we are here to assist. I just want to call out to all women who are abused, victimised and even children can call up on us and we can assist them with what they need to get their lives back in order. It is about time, enough is enough. We are tired of this abuse and we want to assist,” Sookool said. Pragasen Nadarajen, founder of the NGO said that the Victim Friendly Centre is well needed in the community. “With the assistance of the volunteers in the community, the portfolio committee and the SAPS, Captain Lazarus, we can make this happen,” Nadarajen said.  When asked about the relaunch in partnership with the Sydenham SAPS, Captain Lazarus said: “This service is very much needed. We get victims daily and sometimes there is no place for us to interview the victims. in conjunction with hearts for neighbours, there will be specialised people that will be trained in dealing with victims and that will take pressure off the policemen so that policemen can continue to with their duties as well. We look forward to this partnership and we are urging the community to make use of this centre. Young said that those who wish to get involved are more than welcome and will have a screening, interview and registration process. “The police clearance certificate is essential and can be applied for immediately and counsellors will need to produce evidence of previous work done.” She added that the Victim Friendly Centre dedicated line contact number is
060 685 9117. For more information, contact Easlyn Young on 084 242 0962.