The year 2020 marked the start of another decade with the hope that the economy would improve and that the law enforcement agencies will clamp down on fraud and corruption in the public sector, making more money available for service delivery. Sadly, the country experienced the beginning of another recession early in the year, coupled with the commencement of the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, which has wreaked havoc on all our lives. MOSA National Chairperson and Spokesperson, Ronnie Veeran said: “This was about the same time that the Minorities of South Africa (MOSA) was finalising its ward candidates in Phoenix, for next year’s local government elections. This then provided the ideal opportunity for our candidates to get involved in their respective wards, which they did with much dedication, deliberation and hard work, and for which we received much appreciation and support, right across the board.” “The MOSA head office in Stonebridge, Phoenix, remained open throughout the lockdown period, during extended hours on weekdays and over the weekends to deal with a number of people who required assistance. The following has been our involvement in the 2020 year: Permits were issued to hundreds of tuckshop owners and informal traders as the municipal markets were closed during lockdown 5, resulting in people waiting in long queues at major chain stores just to buy bread and milk, exposing them to the pandemic. Our office also issued temporary travel permits to those who wished to travel to other parts of this province as well to other provinces, in emergency situations,” said Veeran. He said that as a result of the lockdown, thousands of people were forced to stay at home, without pay, creating a situation never before seen in Phoenix and off course in the rest of the country. “Many were forced to seek social welfare relief. As one of the few, if not the only political party office in Phoenix, open throughout the lockdown period, we were inundated with requests for food and food hampers. With these desperate times calling for desperate measures, we sought the assistance of Food For Life (FFL), River Range Ranch (RRR), Verulam, who provided fresh, hot, wholesome vegetarian meals on a daily basis, which our members collected and delivered, door to door, to anyone in Phoenix and surrounding areas, regardless of any narrow considerations, who accepted these meals. This continues until today. “We are fortunate to have donors like Westville philanthropist, Nanda Naicker, Muhammad Omar, Phoenix businessmen, Bazil Heeralall, Pravin Chunilall and Tony Amichand, amongst others, who made it possible for us to hand out thousands of food hampers, from our offices, to people all over Phoenix on an ongoing basis – our largest being at the NBA Entertainment Centre in Starwood on 5 July 2020. In addition, courtesy of Sunshine Bakery and Bakers, our members handed over thousands of loaves of bread, door to door to those who had nothing to eat,” said Veeran. On 4 June, the eThekwini Full Council approved Covid-19 relief to all its water and electricity customers across Durban with the deadline date being 30 June for customers to make arrangements to pay in monthly instalments. “As MOSA deemed this too short a period, our representations resulted in the deadline being extended to the 31 December 2020. This saw people queueing at our offices who were issued with personalised letters, addressed to the Phoenix Rent Office, resulting in hundreds of thousands of rands being written off.” The proposal to remove Stonebridge Hall and Earlington Secondary School voting stations from wards 48 and 49 respectively, was vehemently opposed by MOSA. “We stood alone in our petition drives and peaceful placard demonstrations outside the Stonebridge Hall and Durban City Hall. In the end we were successful in maintaining the status quo. We again staged a demonstration, this time outside the Phoenix Rent Office objecting to the high tariff hikes in respect of rates, lights and water which came into effect on 1 July this year. MOSA accordingly voted against the budget at the Full Council meeting this year because of these unreasonable increases in the Covid-19 year, when the income of so many was affected,” said Veeran. “MOSA again stood alone on the side of the people when its candidates in Phoenix intervened in stopping developers building houses on parks, playlots and open spaces without any consultation with the surrounding residents. Sadly we did not get the support of the ward councillors who seemed to be more on the side of the developers than the people. This battle is ongoing. In order to assist the Phoenix community with their high electricity bills, the MOSA head office spearheaded a campaign for prepaid electricity meters. This drew huge, positive response and we would like to see this extended in the new year – we will keep you posted.” Veeran further stated: “The intended demolition of a concrete apron around a Hindu shrine in Clayfield earlier this year, met with huge resistance from MOSA rank and file. Sadly at a meeting held last month when an update was given by Council officials, it would appear that they are intent on going ahead with the demolition. MOSA voiced its objection, questioning the wisdom (or lack of it) at a time when we celebrate 160 years of Indian arrival in this country.”