Park by the Pozie is an initiative aimed at giving a voice to the marginalised South African Indian community by taking a stand to show the South African Government that Indians are an integral part of economy. This initiative will see the Indian population “Park by the Pozie” on 12 December and not support any malls, cinemas, casinos, entertainment activities, etc. In a bid to prove a point that lack of Indian support will “hurt” the economy. Chatsworth Tabloid reached out to their readers to hear what the people have to say and if they will be “Parking by the Pozie”. Taahirah Safla-Saulse
Well yes, I would stay at home as South Africa does not know how much we contribute to the economy, they see us as a minority and that makes them feel as if we are not capable of greater things, but look at how many South Africans we give jobs to through Indian-owned businesses. Scale our buying power to the buying power of others and you will see how much Indians contribute to the economic cycle, we are buyers, sellers and job givers.
Atish Mohan
Yes, according to the South African government, every individual, regardless of creed, culture, race or religion, have a democratic right to be treated with equality. We should all be acknowledged and heard. Suhaan Dreyden Singh
I would like to start off by saying it is good to hear that us Indians, as a race, want to get our voices heard in our country, but why do we have to protest to show that we are equal? To me all races share an equal part in building this country. We have all played our part. Where is our Rainbow Nation? I acknowledge our Indians but in my opinion, by participating In “Park by the Pozie” what exactly are we going to achieve?  It only affects us and our country. SA does not need this right now. Aatikah Abbas
As a recent matriculant, I think this campaign is something everyone should be taking part in, to acknowledge how we have all suffered greatly. Since I am an Indian female, it is hard to get into universities because of both, my gender and my race, as males are preferred in many occupations but people of colour have the advantage at universities. I think Indians, or any kind of Asian, deserves to be acknowledged on the same scale as Black people, since we’ve both suffered a lot, and we all continue the fight in this post-apartheid country. Emmily Moodley
In my view I feel Indians deserve to be acknowledged as much as Black people because in the country that we living in, we do not distinguish between races because we are all one and we should live in unity and we all deserve to be treated equally. Above all I feel that all races need to “park by the pozi” and not just the Indian population. Selena Bhrijlal
Definitely, I think that Indians play an important role in the economy and our country. Many Indians own businesses and create employment opportunities. Indians should be treated and respected the same as other races and there should be no discrimination. I strongly support the fact that Indians played a vital role in building our economy.