“Justice has been served after two long years. This is a bitter-sweet victory for our family.” These were the emotional words of Tashnim dos Santos, the aunt of kidnapped and murdered Sydenham schoolboy, Miguel Louw ,9, whose murderer, Phoenix resident, Mohammed Vahed Ebrahim, 44, was found guilty in the Durban High Court on Monday. Miguel’s decomposed body was found buried in a shallow grave in Longbury Place, Phoenix, about 200 metres from Ebrahim’s residence in 2018, a few weeks after the boy was kidnapped. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, dos Santos said: “The past two years have been a living nightmare. Our family is elated at the guilty verdict handed down even though it will not bring our angel Miguel back to us. We want a harsh sentence for that killer. That monster must spend his life in jail reflecting on the innocent little life that he took away. If only the death sentence still existed.” The state pointed towards premeditation in Miguel’s murder with Ebrahim taking revenge after the boy’s mother spurned him following their reported relationship. Ebrahim appeared shocked and in a state of disbelief as he walked towards the cells pointing fingers at the court room after the verdict was announced finding him guilty on three counts including, murder, kidnapping and theft. He maintained his innocence throughout the proceedings. CCTV footage placed Ebrahim with Miguel at a local eatery on Rippon Road in Sydenham on 17 July. A massive search for the little boy then began until his body was discovered in Phoenix. “Our lives have been in limbo since Miguel’s murder. When Ebrahim was released on bail, Miguel’s sister, my children, in fact, our whole family, was in a state of absolute panic. We lived in fear of that psychopath roaming the streets. “I was present when Miguel’s body was found. I will never get that vision out of my head. Our little angel suffered a gruesome death and we will never know what happened in his final hours. We take some sort of comfort that his killer will be behind bars, hopefully, for the rest of his life,” dos Santos said. Family friend and Sydenham crimefighter, head of Combined Community Watch, Domenic King, shed tears when he heard about the guilty verdict in court. “After two years of heartache and pain, finally there is some sort of closure. I knew Ebrahim was guilty from the start. His stories were inconsistent. When we questioned him about being the last person to see Miguel, he disappeared. Justice has prevailed. “The court case has been an emotional roller-coaster for the family and the community. Miguel’s killer must now pay dearly for taking that young life. This family may never heal from the loss of Miguel but at least they now know that his killer will serve his time behind bars,” said King. According to National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara, sentencing is expected to take place on Wednesday.