All matric Rage gatherings have been identified as one of the super-spreader events of the deadly coronavirus disease. Dr Zweli Mkhize, the Minister of Health, made an urgent announcement on Sunday, 6 December, to all parents and pupils about the super spreader event that has been identified as Covid-19 hotspots. The Rage events are hosted annually to celebrate the end of matriculation. This year the events took place in Ballito, Plettenberg Bay, Jeffery’s Bay and was scheduled to take place in Johannesburg on 12 December. Mkhize said: “We confirm that we have now identified a number of Covid-19 confirmed cases arising from these super-spreader events.This means that if you attended any of these Rage events, you are now regarded as a contact.” The minister urged all Rage attendees to immediately go into a 10-day quarantine period as per the Department of Health Guidelines on Quarantine and Isolation. “We urge that all Rage attendants test for Covid-19. We also encourage parents to take their children who have attended Rage for testing as soon as possible,” he said.
Mkhize warned that this is a clear illustration that large gatherings which involve the consumption of alcohol are a major risk and continue to undermine governments efforts to contain the spread of the virus. He said: “While the government makes an effort to contain this virus, we now plead with all parents to also exercise their parental prerogative and set boundaries on activities that their children, specifically the youth, can participate in.” Mkhize said that it is clear that in these entertainment activities, most participants are not constantly conscious of good behaviour. “This means that our youth are not only exposing themselves to the risk of contracting Covid-19, but they also put the lives of their parents, grandparents and other loved ones living with co-morbidities at risk.”
He encouraged all participants of these super-spreader events to download and interact with the Covid-Alert App as part of the government’s contact tracing efforts. Mkhize said that the department of Health has received reports that a few private hospitals in Durban now have full ICUs. “We continue to plead with all citizens that each individual’s behaviour will determine whether we conquer in this fight or if the virus continues to defeat
our efforts,” said Mkhize. The organisers of the Rage Festival in Ballito released a statement that read: “Despite all efforts before and during the festival and at all Rage-controlled venues, we regret that we have received reports that some attendees have subsequently tested positive for Covid-19. In addition we are aware of four staff working on behalf of suppliers who have let us know directly they have tested positive.”
The organisers said that they are monitoring the situation and urge all individuals who were in contact with the attendees to practice the necessary National Institution
for Committable Diseases (NICD) precautions. “As we continue to monitor Covid-19, it is our responsibility and commitment to inform anyone should they have come into possible contact with someone positive or suspected to be positive for Covid-19 that they urgently follow the necessary NICD guidelines. The organizers said they have sent several alerts directly to all attendees and their legal guardians they provided as next of kin and have supplied all contact tracing information to the Department of Health. “We urgently advise that any person who attended any Rage Festival event in KZN or any other event, bar, house gathering, restaurant or other place during the same period attended by matrics be considered high-risk and follow the NICD guidelines immediately,” read the statement.