The Shallcross community is still reeling in shock after two brothers were fatally shot at a car wash in Himalaya Drive, last week. Mahendra Lillkan of the Shallcross Community Policing Forum said that it was disappointing to note how humans have lost respect for life. He said: “The unnatural loss of any life is very tragic indeed. It is extremely disappointing that we as humans have lost all respect human life and the taking of same has become a callous and insensitive act. I know that the Chatsworth Police are working around the clock to ensure the culprits are brought to book. With the motive for the shooting unknown at this stage, we cannot comment on the incident.” Captain Nqobile Gwala, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said that charges of murder were opened at the Chatsworth Police Station for investigation. She said: “On 24 November at 5pm, Chatsworth police received a complaint of a shooting at Himalaya Drive Shallcross and proceeded to the scene. On arrival they found two males with gunshot wounds to the head, a 39-year-old victim was declared dead on the crime scene and the second victim aged 44 was taken to hospital for medical attention where he later died. It is alleged that the two victims were attacked by two unknown suspects who opened fire wounding them on the head. The suspects fled the scene in their getaway vehicle.” Rumours were abuzz on social media alleging that the same suspects crashed a Toyota Corolla on the N2 North prior to the incident. Gwala said that these rumours cannot yet be confirmed. “There was a vehicle that was found abandoned on the N2 freeway but it cannot be confirmed whether it was the suspects’ vehicle or not, pending police investigation,” said Gwala. Lillkan said that the dedicated members of the Shallcross CPF will continue in their endeavours to curb crime in the area and ensure the safety of their residents as best possible. A source close to family notified the Chatsworth Tabloid that the family is currently concentrating on coming to terms with the loss of the brothers and do not wish to comment on the incident yet.