“Ultimately, it’s an appeal to hearts and minds, demanding that we think about our privilege and prejudices, and ask ourselves how we might contribute to the change we want to see in the world.’’ – Alicia Garza, author of the new book, The Purpose of Power, How to Build Movements for the 21st Century. During the scourge of the Covid-19 global surge, billions took to social media platforms, expressing free speech, posting images and videos, anecdotes, comment and diatribe – sheer brilliance to the mundane and mediocrity mindset to two-bit hackers. From the Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram to Tik Tok – the rule of thumb is the art of communications, communiqué, conversations and narratives in the year of coronavirus.
Like cousins by the dozens, Indians pulled together and the Khoisans and Amazulu tribes became traditionally tied to the totem poles during the stay-at-home pandemic.
The Khoisans are battling ‘’first-people’’ status and white monopoly capital accused of cashing in on their ancient products, rooibos tea to wines. SA’s Indians are on a new march. Via a new spokesman, Karou Charou (KC Moodley), Indians are throwing down the gauntlet after 25 years of post-apartheid nirvana, joyfully free, but nightmarishly as drop in the ocean of a black sea of 55-million people plus economic migrants from Dakar to Dhaka.
A colourful poster of a tightly-clenched fist, India’s national colours as an initiative of the Indian Congress of South Africa – NICSA – is doing the rounds on social media. How will the new foot soldiers of this boycott movement do battle with upmarket Indians’ passion for “shop till you drop’’, as “shopaholics’’, or “kings and queens’’ of the black jack, roulettes and one-armed bandits at casinos and betting shops?
I rest my case: “I disapprove of what you say, but I’ll defend to the death your right to say it.’’ – Francois Marie Arouet, French free-speech activist, aka by his pseudonym – Voltaire • Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist, heading a media communication strategy, publishing and research consultancy, member of the Southern African Freelancers’ Association (SAFREA), SA National Editors’ Forum (SANEF), Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International), an USA-USIS International Visitor and British Council Fellow; and independent political and social commentator, who continues to write columns, leading articles and opinion-editorial commentary for newspapers, magazines, TV and radio, online digital and social media platforms – without fear or favour. Contact Marlan on: marlan.padayachee@gmail.com