President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Monday, 14 December and announced stricter restrictions for the festive season – from midnight on Monday 14 December. The president declared the Sarah Baartman and Garden Route districts coronavirus hotspots and provided a differentiated approach on beaches. He also announced a longer curfew. He warned: “ The festive season poses the greatest threat to the health and well-being of the nation and to the recovery of the economy. If we do not do things differently, we will greet the new year not with joy, but with sorrow. Unless we act responsibly now and adhere to the basic precautions, we will face a bleak new year.” Ramaphosa said that given the rate of growing coronavirus cases if we do not act urgently, the second wave will be more severe than the first wave. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in South Africa is 866 127, with nearly 8000 new cases reported. The number of new cases has increased from a daily average of 3800 to over 6600 a day. The four provinces that are leading the second wave are Eastern Cape, Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Ramaphosa said most of the new infections are among young people, in the age group of 15 to 19 years. Key contributors are social gatherings and parties at ‘super-spreaders’ where Covid-19 protocols are not observed and people consume alcohol and become careless. He also said that increased travel contributes to the rise in infections. Many people do not observe prevention measures as they move around. Further nation-wide restrictions imposed from midnight on Monday. A differentiated approach on beaches – according to different circumstances in different areas of the country Measures to prevent super-spreader events Ramaphosa advised, despite restrictions the season can be festive and safe by keeping celebrations small and avoiding crowds, spending time with people outside, making sure you are in a well-ventilated space, wearing a mask that covers the nose and mouth in public, washing hands with soap and water or with sanitizer and limiting travel. He said the next few weeks are going to be a great test of our determination and restraint. “This period will require us to do things differently to previous years. If we play our part and follow the precautions, then we can have a joyful festive season and a happy, healthy and prosperous new year,” said Ramaphosa.