Residents of Sydenham are determined to continue to fight against gender-based violence. On Monday, 7 December, residents took to the streets to remind others that the gender-based violence fight is far from over and encouraged others to join in light of the 16 days of Activism For No Violence Against Women and Children. Speaking to The Springfield Weekly Gazette, Desere de Waal, a resident who has been persistent in fighting against GBV said that there is no end when it comes to raising and creating awareness about GBV and she believes that the community will work together in fighting the battle and will be sure to strive for a GBV-free community. ‘It is the 16 Days of Activism For No Violence Against Women and Children and we are playing our part, especially with the children in the community so that they can voice their opinions. We are very proud of them because they came up with the placard idea and decided what should be written on each of them,” de Waal said. She emphasised that there is no embarrassment in speaking out against abuse. “Those who are in abusive relationships need to start speaking out unashamedly. We have a Victim Friendly Care Centre that recently relaunched and a number of which is provided. “The Sydenham community is saying speak out during the 16 Days of Activism must be an ongoing thing as well. It must not just be for the 16 days. People need to speak out and come forward to receive the assistance that they may require,” de Waal said. She said that this awareness campaign that is taking place is a learning curve for the future of the children who participated in the demonstration. “They are our future leaders at the end of the day and they must set the standards and be the role models in the future to say that this is not okay and they are totally against it. It is a learning curve for the children for them to understand what it is about and also moving forward, they will instill it in the children to come.” De Waal said that South Africa is facing countless problems at once and to create awareness, the Sydenham committee will be hosting sporting events and a fun-day for children and through this platform they will engage with attendees on informative discussions on GBV and human and child trafficking. “We asked certain municipality departments to come out, join us and assist us on the day of the event, 19 December. On this day, we will have children come out and play an active role to promote these causes,” de Waal added.