Pandemonium broke out on Tara Road in the Bluff and Merewent area just after 7am this morning when a section of the Engen Refinery exploded resulting in a massive blaze with thick clouds of black smoke filing the air. The explosion was reportedly heard as far as Chatsworth. Emergency services dashed to the scene as calls for assistance rapidly streamed through on social media with a video of the blazing refinery going viral. The area around Engen has been cordoned off by authorities while it is alleged that provincial ambulance services have been granted access to treat the injured on scene. SAPS and firefighters together with private ambulance services and security personnel are present to assist and contain the scene. It is unconfirmed how many casualties are on scene or if there were any fatalities. The impact of the explosion is alleged to have caused a flat on Wiest Road in Wentworth, to catch alight. Occupants were panicked and it was reported that there were attempts by flat dwellers to jump from the windows. Firefighters responded quickly and the fire was extinguished. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Dhevan Govindasamy, spokesperson for PT Alarms, who was on scene shortly after the explosion, said: “There was utter chaos. People scurried around in absolute panic. Scores of ambulance services were on scene together with firefighters. Family members of employees at the refinery gathered in their numbers struck with fear as they awaited news of their loved ones safety. PT Alarms Tactical Units assisted Metro Police to cordon off the scene.” “PT Ambulance Service was among the many emergency service providers who rushed to the burning flat. The occupants were assisted to safety and firefighters worked quickly to extinguish the blaze. There were no reported injuries,” said Govindasamy. The explosion has left the community residing near the refinery, traumatised. Some residents told Tabloid Newspapers that their homes shook from the foundation while their windows rattled so loudly as if they were going to shatter. One resident said her door shook violently and she held her breath as she prayed that her sliding door would not fall on her. The scene is still active. 