As reports of Covid-19 second wave hits health workers, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Health MEC has appealed for calm and stricter adherence to Covid protocols. In a statement, the MEC said that they have been inundated with media enquiries containing allegations of healthcare workers and support staff being infected with Covid-19, at hospitals in and around eThekwini. “We have also noted correspondence being widely distributed on social media, purportedly by staff, among others, alluding to these infections,” Simelane-Zulu said. She confirmed a significant rise in Covid-19 infections among health workers, in recent weeks. She said: “Those who have borne the brunt of Covid-19 include frontline staff. At Addington Hospital, 38 staff members have tested positive for Covid-19 since the start of December. This includes five doctors, 11 nursing staff, one allied worker, and 21 support staff. However, Addington Hospital continues to function, and is accepting all walk-in patients. Only those who are picked up by ambulance are being diverted to Prince Mshiyeni Memorial and King Edward VIII hospitals.” She said that 23 staff members tested positive at RK Khan Hospital. According to Simelene-Zulu, the total number is made up of seven nurses, 10 doctors, two radiologists, three clerks and one general orderly. Contrary to unfounded reports, RK Khan Hospital is also open and rendering healthcare services, while following strict Covid-19 infection prevention protocols. KZN is among the four provinces that are driving the spread of the virus, alongside Western Cape, Eastern Cape, and Gauteng. Simelane-Zulu said that health workers carry an additional burden of responsibility to take care of themselves, and to follow the Covid-19 precautions, given the sensitivity of their work environment, and their higher exposure. “Covid-19 is only flaring up now, because when the statistics started to go down, people became complacent and started assuming that the virus was no longer a threat, despite constant warnings about the possibility of a resurgence, and the need to adhere to the precautions. With the second wave now here, if the precautions are strictly followed, there lies an opportunity for health workers and the South African public to buck the trend and avoid being part of the statistics of this global phenomenon,” she said. She said we need not have a second wave of panic, which helps no-one; and instead sows fear, stigmatisation and the discrimination of staff and patients from affected facilities. Chief among those lessons has been the need for government to ensure that there is always sufficient personal protective equipment; as well as to ensure that all staff are trained on its correct usage. Simelane-Zulu advised that 7451 healthcare workers have been infected with Covid-19 in the public sector since the beginning of the pandemic. Of the total infected, 91 (1 percent) have sadly succumbed to the disease. The majority of the infected healthcare workers were nurses (57 percent), followed by doctors at 6 percent, with the balance coming from other categories. In line with Covid-19 prevention and management protocols, where staff or patients have tested positive, the affected areas are decontaminated, while contact staff get tested and put on quarantine. She said the number of hospital admissions are increasing daily, but was confident that KZN will be able to cope. “We are ready, thanks to the staff that we recruited and extra bed capacity that has been prepared throughout the province. Now is not the time to panic, point fingers or despair. We appreciate the courageous manner in which healthcare workers have helped us fight Covid-19, and we call upon them to remain alive to the high risk that they face. We call upon them to solider on and use established channels to air work-related grievances that they might have. Now is the time for us to use the collective wisdom that we have gained in the recent past, to stand up against the virus and boldly declare never again should we succumb to a virus which does not move on its own, but gets moved by us. “