Child Welfare has called on Chatsworth residents to break the silence on the ongoing abuse of women and children and for the community to stand in solidarity with victims by being part of their ribbon campaign. The campaign is designed to raise awareness during the observance of 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children, which started on 25 November and concludes on 10 December. Salochana Moodley, director of CWC, said that as a centre which services people from all walks of life in the community, commemorating 16 Days of Activism was crucial as it amps up the organisation’s and the country’s awareness drive. “It is imperative that women know that there are different forms of abuse. Women and child abuse should remain a priority every day. The different types of abuse that people are faced with include physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse and economic abuse. Education and awareness is the key to break the silence against abuse,” she said. As the first five days of the commemoration were set aside in remembrance of the lives lost due to gender-based violence (GBV) and to those who lost their battle with Covid-19, CWC participated in wearing a black accessory together with the nation in mourning. Moodley said that the organisation believes that abuse against children and women are a priority 365 days of the year. “Child Welfare Chatsworth keeps children and families close to their hearts therefore we encourage the community to join our campaign in the fight against women and child abuse. Ribbons will also be distributed throughout this campaign to symbolise a united front against abuse,” she said.According to CWC, indicators to look out for abuse include isolation, secrecy, bulling behaviour, harassment, disrespect, physical and sexual abuse as well as denial. Moodley said: “As a child- protection organisation, we firmly believe that our children are our future and we need to protect them as well as invest in their future upliftment,” said Moodley. For more information on the ribbons and 16 Days of Activism contact CWC on 031 403 1256.