Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH) has once again come under fire, after a Phoenix pensioner allegedly spent over 18 hours awaiting treatment at the facility. Savy Naidoo, 61, a community activist and founder of the Phoenix Widows Support Group claimed: “Earlier this year, I was diagnosed with kidney failure and as a result my body is retaining water. I can no longer walk normally because water sits at the bottom of my body and needs to be drained often. I recently went to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital and the treatment I received from the medical staff on duty was shocking. I arrived at the hospital around 6pm in the evening in very bad condition, to drain the water build up in my body. When I arrived at the hospital, the nurses just put me in a wheelchair, pushed me one side and just left me sitting there for hours on end while they walked up and down without checking to see if I was fine,” said Naidoo. She said that she sat at the casualty ward the entire night and around 3am the following day, she called councillor Patrick Pillay seeking his assistance. “When they finally saw to me the following day, I had some blood tests done. Whenever someone takes blood for me, I look the other way and had my jacket on the whole time as I was feeling very cold. Around 1pm when the results came back, the doctor suggested that we do another test, when I pulled my jacket off, blood started shooting and that’s when we realised that the nurse who had taken the blood test for me earlier on, did not remove the needle. I had a needle in me for almost 5 hours,” said a disgruntled Naidoo. She said that Mahatma Gandhi Hospital is a public health facility used by hundreds of people daily, but it was shocking to see that Covid-19 protocols are not being followed. “There is no sanitising or screening being done on patients/visitors entering the facility. The taps are broken after using the toilets, patients cannot wash their hands. The environment is unhygienic which is very disturbing especially during the times of Covid-19,” said Naidoo. “I’m always empowering women through the widows support group but how many women, men and the elderly go through such treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital and cannot speak out because they are intimidated. They constantly go through the same bad treatment that it has become normal to them. No, it’s not normal, we all deserve to be treated and serviced with respect and dignity at public health facilities,” added Naidoo. Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader Patrick Pillay said: “I received a frantic call from Savy Naidoo’s son in the early hours of the morning complaining that his mum was taken to Ghandhi hospital at 6pm the previous night for her serious medical condition and she was not attended to because of the staff shortages. After my immediate intervention with the hospital management, then only was treatment administered. As a party, the DLC condemns these inefficiencies of our health care system and will be calling on the Minister of Health to urgently fill up critical vacancies that will enhance the work force at Gandhi Hospital.” Pillay added that while the DLC acknowledges that the Covid-19 pandemic has placed a major strain on the health care system, Gandhi hospital has become a living nightmare for many patients. “Staff shortages coupled with long waiting periods, unhygienic ablution facilities, broken wheelchairs and the lack of beds in causality have made many patients uncomfortable whilst awaiting treatment. If any patient feels aggrieved with any processes and violation of their patients’ rights, then it is their right to lodge a formal complaint with the PRO or the CEO of the hospital,” Pillay added. Spokesman for the KZN Department of Health Ntokozo Maphisa said: “The department can only confirm that it refutes the allegations, and that the patient was indeed seen to and underwent relevant clinical intervention. This includes the recording of vital signs and other interventions, which were done shortly after the patient’s arrival.” Maphisa said that following an examination, the patient was requested to return to the facility for a follow-up consultation on 23 November, however, records show that the patient did not honour the appointment. “After being contacted by the newspaper, the hospital has attempted to contact the patient to book her another appointment to no avail. The suggested rescheduled date is 7 January 2021. Lastly, during this challenging time, the hospital and the department as a whole has made its best efforts to adhere to Covid-19 regulations. According to hospital management, standard procedures are being observed as regulated by Infection Prevention Control policies,” added Maphisa.