It will be a not-so-normal yet blessed Christmas at the uShaka Marine World as they welcome the public to the Sea World Dolphins by Starlight show on a series of events from 10-13 December. The public should prepare to be entertained by the elite entertaining nature of the dolphins as they perform dazzling aquatic aerobics to the most cherished Christmas carols. Mantombi Tofile, acting marketing executive at uShaka Marine World, said: “This year’s ‘Not-So-Normal’ Dolphins by Starlight show will have something even more special, but we don’t want to ruin the surprise just yet. You will have to be there to experience the magic.” Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Vuyiswa King, uShaka’s events and entertainment manager said: “This different kind of Christmas celebration will be hosting a limited number of guests due to the Covid-19 regulations, hence the theme ‘Not-So-Normal’. From welcoming 3000 people to the show, this
year is limited to only 500 which is not even half. We will be welcoming people wearing masks, observing social distancing, and following all the regulations, however this
will not stop the entertaining, social, and interactive nature of the dolphins to give the best performance they are known to give,” said King. King said uShaka Sea World is home to Bottlenose dolphins who adapt well in different environments. Dolphins are creative and innovative, and seem to enjoy stimulation. They are naturally acrobatic and very powerful. For the Christmas show, uShaka will slowly get them used to the Dolphins by Starlight staging and lights. Alongside the thrilling dolphins are their trainers known as animal behaviourists, who form part the cast of the entertaining dolphin shows. “Animal behaviour management includes welfare assessment and care as well as how to ethically teach an animal to work alongside caretakers for medical interventions, guest experiences, and stimulation. Behaviour management also includes environment and living interventions to ensure the animals are constantly stimulated. Their relationship with
the dolphins is based on trust which is generated by creating a positive association between the two. This takes long hours of dedicated interactions both in and out of formal training sessions,” said King. King further explained that the staff are also trained to be competent in caring for animals’ well-being on a practical level which includes nutrition, environment management, water-care, and a lot more. “Staff also need to be competent in sharing inspiration messages with guests using animals so that we can effectively share our conservation messages,” she said. Topping things off with these series of events, a full virtual Starlight show will also be available from 21 December which will accommodate the people who will not be able to physically make it to the shows. Further details will be published on uShaka Marine World’s website and social media pages.