Amanzimtoti beach was abuzz on Saturday morning, 5 December, for the official launch of their Blue Flag status, after being awarded the prestigious award last month. eThekwini Municipality Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, officially cut the ribbon and unveiled a huge orange photo frame installed by Sapphire Coast tourism to promote sightseeing in the area. The event was spearheaded by Durban Tourism. The beach is one of five eThekwini beaches that were awarded full Blue Flag status last month by the Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa (WESSA). The activation was part of the Rediscover Durban Summer campaign. Destination frames, already installed on Durban’s beach promenade, allow locals and visitors to photograph themselves with picturesque views and iconic backdrops. This was the second frame to be installed with one already installed at the Durban Beach Front. André Beetge, Ward 97 councillor, Jace Govender, Amanzimtoti beach manager and Romy Wenzel of Sapphire Coast tourism were on scene to commemorate the special occasion. The official Blue flag was hoisted high upon the lifeguard and tourism offices building, proudly showing off the deserved award. Departments worked intimately with one another to achieve 2021’s Blue flag vision after two years of not meeting required standards. Improved surf cleanliness and reduced water pollution, maintenance of basic service delivery and ensuring community safety in public spaces form part of several joint efforts, and standards, made by Amanzimtoti officials to ensure their win. Kaunda said: “The photo frames that have already been installed on the Durban promenade are earmarked as another strategic way of further marketing the destination. When tourists post their memorable stay on social media, the city continues to trend as the warmest place to be in terms of hospitality and hosting capabilities and more people will want to visit and rediscover Durban.” Kaunda highlighted the city’s state of readiness for the festive season and outlined the South of Durban’s coastal life attractions and other tourism offerings. He stressed the importance of safety and sustainable growth, saying: “Economies of small towns rely on tourism to get by, let us work together and develop these hot spots into go to places to visit. These strategically social-media orientated photo frames allow tourists to post their pictures immediately and draw more attention to Durban. The Re-discover Durban campaign is well underway, as our city continues to trend in being the warmest, and most hospitable.” Speaking to the Southern Star, Kaunda said: ” We are proud of the commitments made by the Amanzimtoti community and local government to reach Blue flag status along with 5 other Ethekwini beaches and congratulate them. This photo frame is part of our revitalization of tourism on the South Coast , we need to resuscitate beaches like Isipingo and Umgababa so the entire region can benefit for tourism.” Kaunda appealed to residents and visitors to always adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols to save the tourism sector and livelihoods.