As the number of abandoned children continues to rise in KwaZulu-Natal, women have been urged to consider various available options such as adoption and foster care. This call was made by Adeshini Naicker, acting director of Childline KZN, following the recent incident of a six-week old baby found by a jogger abandoned in a bush in Tongaat, last week. This comes as all sectors of society joined the call to oppose any form of abuse committed against women and children. Naicker said that there has been a rise in the number of reported cases of children found abandoned by their parents in the province since the introduction of lockdown. “I do not have exact figures at the moment, but I can confirm that we have seen an increase in the number of babies being abandoned. This could be attributed to various reasons including the economic despair that the country and its citizens found itself in due to lockdown.” Naicker revealed that female teenagers are often overwhelmed by the economic and emotional burden of having a baby and often choose to abandon their children. “Often one also hides the pregnancy from her family because she is afraid of retribution. When the baby is born, it is easier to abandon the child rather than explain,” she said. Naicker advised pregnant women to acquire information about the various options available to them before abandoning their children in the public areas. She said that women need to always ask questions or find an organisation to help rather than making drastic decisions. Following the incident in Tongaat, Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson, said that a case of child abandonment is being investigated by Tongaat police. The unharmed baby dressed in a pink outfit and wrapped in a white fleece blanked with different coloured stars was found abandoned, and was taken to Mediclinic Victoria Hospital by IPSS Medical Rescue for a check-up. Paul Herbst of IPSS, said that a person jogging past, had heard the baby crying in the bush. “After a consultation with Mediclinic Victoria hospital management, we got a green light to transport the child to the private facility for treatment. The baby was well-dressed and wrapped in a blanket,” he said. Jo Moodley, social work manager at Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society, said that this was the first known incident of child abandonment reported in the area since the start of the lockdown. She said: “We are aware that other areas have been experiencing an increase in the number of abandoned babies. We urge the residents to approach us for assistance when they cannot cope with their children.” Lockdown has placed economic strain on a number of families, Moodley said that there has been an increase in domestic violence which causes women to abandon their children. She urged the victims to report the abuse to the police and seek support from their society. Moodley said: “There is no stigma to not being able to provide for your child in these trying times. We urge the community to work with us to protect the children and their future.” Naicker said that the number of babies being abandoned is expected to increase during the lockdown and beyond due to the increasing desperation of mothers struggling to cope financially. “These unprecedented times, many South Africans are in economic distress. Other factors such as chronic depression, anxiety and stress coupled with the lockdown could cause considerable fear and worry,” she said. Naicker said that while Childline did not condone the actions of any mother abandoning her baby, they were able to look deeper into the “why?”