Students from Skisa Pesco Karate Club recently sailed through the term grading, fighting their way into individual belts of the next colour. The grading event was successfully held at the Pesco Hall in Sunford, Phoenix on 26 November. Sensei Raj Govender, senior instructor, congratulated his students for their outstanding efforts. “I am very proud of all my students. They have worked extremely hard to get to where they are now and it makes me happy to see them grow and develop,” said Sensei Govender. He said that with determination such as little Miguel, Eli, Sohali, Skylar, Renelle, Fareeha and Lazaro, the club will definitely be producing more champions in the near future. Students were graded by the president of Skisa and president of Karate South Africa (KSA), Hanshi Sonny Pillay. “I was very impressed with the young karatekas, some of whom are only 4-years-old,” said Hanshi Sonny Pillay. “You don’t have to be great to start karate, but I know I have to start somewhere so that I can be great,” said young karateka, Chereece Leah Runsasami at the term grading event.
Skisa Pesco Karate Club was established in 1990 and has kept youth from Phoenix, Verulam, Tongaat, Durban North, Chatsworth and surrounding areas engaged in quality sports over the years. “Our club has created some of the best karate students, provincially, nationally and internationally, earning themselves KZN colours, national and Protea colours and have gone to achieve great things in their personal and work life,” said Sensei Govender. “As with martial arts comes discipline, self defence, honesty and good role models. It also helps build a strong character as well as confidence. Pesco Karate Club welcomes all karate enthusiasts, both children and adults to learn the art of self defence skills and further improve their karate skills. Classes are held at Pesco Hall, Sunford Drive on Tuesday and Thursday from 5pm,” added Sensei Govender. For further details, contact Sensei Raj Govender on 083 789 3012.