A Phoenix wife and mother of two, her domestic worker and two other accused uttered a sigh of relief when they were granted bail in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Friday following their arrest for the attempted murder of the woman’s husband. Home décor businesswoman, Sandra Govender, 53, was granted bail of R3 000 while her co-accused, Nomfundiso Ntabe, Kwanele Mbebe and Zandile Mvelu will have to fork out R1 500 each for their release. Govender, Ntabe and Mbebe have no prior convictions or pending cases whilst Mvelu has a shoplifting offence but was released on a warning. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said that it is alleged that at about 5.30pm on Wednesday, 22 January, the complainant, 62, was seated in the lounge at his residence on Wheatbrook Avenue in Brookdale watching TV, when the ordeal unfolded. “The complainant was approached by three women who suddenly covered his head with a bin bag and two of the women began throttling him with a scarf. When he managed to remove the bag, he discovered that one of his assailants was his maid. They began to struggle with one another until they got to his bedroom where the struggle to throttle and suffocate him continued. “The suspects were then joined by the victim’s wife. She also tried to suffocate him with a bin bag. He managed to activate the panic button. The neighbour came to his rescue and all the suspects were arrested,” Naidoo said. She said that the wife made an admission to the police that she and her husband are separated but occupy the same house. “She claimed that they have plenty of personal differences. She further claimed that she planned the entire incident with the maid for a reward of R4 000,” Naidoo added. Govender’s attorney, Rajiv Sarjoo, explained to the court that his client had an employee roll of 15 people who depended on their jobs and she also supported her household. The court heard from Sarjoo that Govender’s husband attempted to withdraw the case with the Senior Public Prosecutor but his request was denied. The four accused will appear in court in March. Other charges still need to be made.