KwaZulu-Natal Ban Animal Trading (BAT), hosted a peaceful placard demonstration outside the Mitchell Park Zoo in Morningside on Saturday, to send a message that the zoo is no place for animals.The group gathered at the corner of Musgrave and Florida Road to voice their concerns. This follows the recent statement from the SPCA stressing their concerns about the well being of animals, who were allegedly living in bad conditions. BAT Durban director, Prathna Singh said as BAT, they are committed to confronting and eradicating animal exploitation and abuse in all industries that benefit from the misery and suffering of sentient creatures. “We are of the opinion that Zoos are an archaic concept and have no place in modern society. Animals should not spend their lives confined to unnatural and inadequate spaces, for human benefit.The aim of our peaceful demonstration, is to educate the public on these points, as well as create awareness surrounding the plight of the animals held captive at the Zoo,” she said. She added that the march did indeed serve its purpose, as they received an enormous amount of positive responses from the public. Motorists and pedestrians who passed by showed their agreement and support, and they had a number of people approaching them to ask questions and learn more about the reasons for their demonstration.“Zoos are unnecessary, unethical and serve no purpose in our current society.  Animals should be viewed in the wild, in their natural habitats, where they are able to exhibit natural behaviours. There is no conservation nor educational value to confining animals to cages in unnatural environments. The  Zoo initially came under fire for the abhorrent conditions that the animals were kept in, and there has since been talk of improving the conditions. We feel that improving the aesthetics of the Zoo will serve only to appease the human visitors who frequent it, but will do little to improve the physical, emotional and psychological shortcomings that the animals  endure every day. The animals should be relocated to sanctuaries where they can live out the rest of their lives in suitable environments that are as natural as possible,” Singh added.Ward 27 councillor Ernest Smith said that from their viewpoint with other councillors, the majority of animals are taken care of and the incidents that arose are ones that cannot be applied to every animal in the Zoo.“Members of the public raised their concerns regarding the state of animal enclosures where these were investigated and there were issues (holes in the enclosure, non functional pumps, cleanliness, etc) most of them have been resolved/tended to with others being requisitioned for, according to departmental protocol for more resources to be allocated to these issues,” he said.