The heartbroken family of Hageshan Mickyle Chinsamy, (23), is reeling from his untimely death and have spoken out concerning the circumstances surrounding his tragic passing.In an interview with the Phoenix Tabloid, Moses Pillay, a family spokesperson said, “On Saturday, 8 February between 8.45pm and 9pm, the late Hageshan Mickyle Chinsamy, (23) informed his wife, Roberta, to have his supper ready, as he was going down to the shopping centre which is between 400 to 500 metres away from his house. He said he would be back shortly. He never returned home within the time frame that he usually comes back home. After not returning that night, we started getting worried and began searching for him. We began asking friends without any success. We continued the search overnight, extending it to Sunday morning, trying to get any leads to where he may be,” Pillay added.“At this time, the entire family was frantic and proceeded to Phoenix SAPS and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in search of Chinsamy. We continued the search and were on the brink of filing a missing person’s report. Towards the afternoon, on that Sunday, 9 February, we got a message via social media stating that an Indian male had been found dead near a stream at the Rydalvale sports ground. The family immediately proceeded to the grounds hoping that it was not Hageshan,” said Pillay.Pillay said upon arrival at the scene, police personnel, KZN VIP, paramedics and the forensic team were on site. “The place was cordoned off and no one was allowed to enter until police personnel had done their forensic work.“In the midst of everything, we informed the police that our son was missing and when we did get a chance to enter, it was the last thing we expected to see. It was our worst nightmare when we identified the deceased as our son, Hageshan,” said Pillay.He added, “Upon taking a close up look of him, he had a laceration on the right side of his face, a blue mark on the left arm and blue marks on the sides of his stomach. He was missing his earrings, a Samsung A2 phone, belt and his wedding ring. He was found in a sitting position as if someone had placed him there. It’s a mystery how he ended up there because we knew he was at the shop.“According to a Phoenix SAPS report, Hageshan’s wallet was missing which is untrue because his wallet was at home, containing R500 for his six-week-old daughter’s needs. Furthermore, the report also stated that he sustained a stab wound to his chest and arm. This is also false as the autopsy report did not prove this,” said Pillay. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Hageshan’s father, Denzil Chinsamy said, “My son just recently got married in October to a beautiful wife, whom he has a beautiful daughter with. The allegation about him being involved in sexual activity is baseless, without sufficient proof because an autopsy was done and no one bothered to check if this was true.”“My son lived for his daughter and wife who is the love of his life. They met in school when they were teenagers. He was a very bubbly person who enjoyed playing soccer and spending quality time with friends and family. My son had so much to live for and his whole life ahead of him. All we want is closure and justice to prevail after he was taken away from us in such a brutal manner,” said the bereaved father.