Despite an attempt to prevent the Solidarity March protesting the Indian Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) from taking place, a religiously diverse crowd of about 1000 rallied in a united front at the North Beach Amphitheatre on16 February.  The march was organised by the South African Muslim Network (Samnet) to create an awareness about India’s discriminatory law relating to the CAA and India’s National Register of Citizens (NRC). It was also an attempt to show solidarity with people worldwide who are protesting against the Act. Supporters of the law tried to prevent the march from taking place by contesting it with the eThekwini Municipality and the provincial government. However, their efforts were in vain as the march continued as planned, in a peaceful, well organised and disciplined manner. Despite the many religious and cultural groups in South Africa, Durban residents showed their spirit of uBuntu by labelling the discriminatory law a human rights issue.The CAA is an amendment to a 1955 legislation, which fast tracks citizenship to Hindu, Sikh, Parsi, Buddhist and Christian immigrants who moved to India from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan prior to December 2014. This legislation will protect those seeking shelter in India due to persecution. The bill does not mention protecting Muslims. While it is important for refugees to gain citizenship, India is excluding the Muslim refugees who fled persecution from countries such as Myanmar, Sri Lanka and China. The NRC requires people to prove that they or their ancestors were in their state of residence on or before 24 March 1971. The NRC will differentiate between Indian citizens and illegal immigrants – who will be deported. Samnet’s Dr Faizel Sulaiman said that he was pleased with the attendance at the march. Although demonstrators remained focused on the purpose of the march, Sulaiman clarified misunderstandings.“The march was not anti-Hindu, anti-Indian nor was it a battle between India and Pakistan. Human rights activists worldwide are participating to counter Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Narendra Modi’s attempt at targeting the minorities with the discriminatory laws of CAA and NRC,” said Sulaiman. He appealed to the public to not misconceive the mission of the campaign as Hindu against Muslim but rather as a drive to highlight the injustice that minority religious communities face.“South African Hindu’s are opposing these laws as they are an infringement on the human rights of religious minorities. We had protestors across the religious and cultural spectrum with slogans and banners, chanting against the discriminatory laws. The public should not be misled by people who promote division and provocative actions against this campaign,” said Sulaiman.  Community activist, Imtiaz Syed, said that he believed the politics of India must be spoken of in South Africa as it is a human rights infringement that should not carry itself to our country. He said that as indentured workers under British rule South African Indians toiled the soil with sweat, blood and tears during Apartheid, along with the Black community, and also appeared at the forefront with great Indian leaders.“We have had activism for a long time  and we must not sit still while people of known links to India devise strategies to divide us based on religion. It is time for our religious leaders, of all faiths, and government to take a stance and ensure that those forces not acting in the interest of the majority but rather an agenda to divide, disunite and create turmoil are unsuccessful,” said Syed.