Through his melodic voice and musical talents Yellowwood Park resident Kerolin Govender has become a fan favourite at Chatsworth events, where he has a huge fan base. Kerolin who trained in traditional music, recently sat down with The Chatsworth Tabloid, to talk about how his music is transcending borders and unifying the people, in battle to fight injustice and social ills.Chatsworth Tabloid (CT): Who is Kerolin Govender?Kerolin Govender (KG): Kerolin Govender is a 27-year-old Yellowwood Park resident whose passion for music grew from a tender- four-year-old into a skilled and masterful musician and vocalist.CT: Coming from such a diverse community as Yellowwood Park, what challenges did you face trying to get into the music industry?KG: Growing up in a diverse society saturated by multicultural traditions it was a challenge to focus on your own family traditions, but I realised very early on that commitment and perseverance were key to achieving my dream of one day moving the heart and souls of people by the sounds of my music and voice. So I was patient and studied my craft, to find my own sound that will open doors for me. So I have yet to meet much resistance.CT: When did you realise your passion for traditional music?KG: When I was 14, my parents realised my potential and passion for traditional music, arts and culture. This active interest spearheaded the move in them sending me for tutelage to Shri Magantharen Balakisten, who till this day remains a spiritual mentor and an inspiration for my music.CT: Did you study traditional music?KG: While living in Bangalore, completing my Bachelor of Architectural degree at Visvesvaraya Technological University, I was presented with the opportunity of furthering my musical passion under the direction of the legendary, Dr L Subramaniam and Kavita Krishnamurthy at the Subramaniam Academy of Performing Arts (SAPA). I was also rewarded with a two year training programme to fine-tune my musical skill in Carnatic Music. This musical journey transformed my life into a spiritual one in which I found much solace and peace.CT: If not a musician, what career path would you have chosen?KG: I am an architect by profession, so I would do anything in the architectural field.CT: What do you do in your spare time?KG: In my spare time, I use music to create awareness on the social ills in society. I also enjoy painting and drawing.CT: Do you have a motto that you live by or motivates you?KG: I believe music is an excellent tool for building social cohesion and I live by the motto ‘Rediscover the true-self and live with the yearning to discover.’  CT: What is your production, ‘Love, a musical journey’ about?KG: Spurred by public anticipation after Jivanmukta’s debut performance in April last year and in keeping with the month of love, my fellow musicians and I have put together a production entitled ‘Love, a musical journey.’ My skill with the air-organ and the soothing sound of the voice will captivate even those that do not understand the language. With poetry, I pull heartstrings and ignite the soul, the lyrics of his songs transport you on a journey back in time where people enjoyed and admired the simplicity of life.CT: What is your initiative, Jivanmukta music about?KG: Jivanmukta is about creating awareness on social issues which people face globally. Through the artistic forms of music, dance and poetry, Jivanmukta music strives to not only create awareness but to also inspire and motivate others to fight against the injustice in the world. Music has the power to transform, heal and bring people together.’ We are using music to fight social ills by uniting people.CT: The event you performed at, at iZulu Theatre, Sibaya, on Saturday, 15 February, what did you do to inspire your audience in the month of love?KG: The production ‘Love’ celebrates and shares with its audience a unique collaboration between Indian and African cultures, through fusion items showcasing popular South African songs which show the love that has u nified them as one nation. The concert featured me, Kriyakshia Govender, Trevin Govender, Rajive Mohan, Tansen Nepaul, Ashley Kisten, Oumesh Inderparsad, Veedhern Punwasi, Anil Sewpersad, Selvanus Soobramoney, Desh Ramchander, Avishkar Goberdhanand and sound by Acoustic Avenue.CT: Where have you performed previously?KG: I have performed at many events before including, Sibaya iZulu Theatre, the Playhouse, weddings, classical dance recitals and at many events in Chatsworth as I have a huge fan base in the Chatsworth area.