A 27-year-old woman who replied to an online advert offering employment was allegedly held hostage by five men, who demanded a ransom for her release.According to private security company, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), the incident occurred on 14 February. Rusa spokesperson, Prem Balram, said they received a call from the family of the North Coast woman requesting assistance after they were contacted by a man stating that he was allegedly holding the job seeker hostage.Balram said: “The call was made from the victim’s cellphone. The caller demanded R5 000 to be deposited into an e-wallet account. The victim was allowed to speak to her family for a brief period before the call was terminated.”He said Rusa officers then proceeded to the callers residence and upon arrival, they were informed that the victim responded to an advert on Facebook that listed jobs for domestic workers. “The only information they could provide at that stage was that the victim had left home during the early hours of the morning to catch a taxi to Pinetown, where she was expected to meet a woman who promised her a job. While the officers were interviewing the family the kidnappers made several calls to her brother demanding the money be paid immediately or they would kill the woman,” Balram addedWhile Rusa was organising a search party with other law enforcement agencies, the family received another call, but this time from the victim. Balram said: “She stated that she managed to escape and fled to a nearby residence where she was assisted by a woman who allowed her to use her phone. Rusa contacted Pinetown SAPS and provided the female’s location. Police proceeded to the residence and found the victim in a state of panic but unharmed. She was transported back to her residence at 4am on Saturday morning.” He said the woman explained what happened after she alighted from a taxi in Mariannridge near Pinetown. The victim said she was approached by a man who knew who she was and that she had responded the advert posted on the social media site.“She said the man asked her to follow him to where the interview would be conducted. As they approached a dense bush which he convinced her was a short cut to the interview, they were joined by four other men who grabbed her and tied her up. The men threatened to rape her until she informed them that she was on her menstrual cycle. Two of the suspects were confirmed to be armed with firearms. The woman was gagged and held for several hours, while the suspects used her cellphone to contact her family to pay a ransom for her release. She managed to remove her restraints and flee to a nearby residence after the suspects left her alone for a brief period,” said Balram