All University of KwaZulu-Natal campuses were shut down on Monday, 10 February, following the institutions decision to suspend the academic programme until further notice. Over the past two weeks, the university has been plagued by ongoing violent student protests emanating from the alleged exclusion, via historical debt. According to the student body, they cannot afford to pay the 15 percent of their historical debt required before they can register. Over the past two weeks university buildings at Howard College and Pietermaritzburg campuses were torched, allegedly by student. This also led to clashes with police and security, resulting in number of students being arrested. Ashton Bodrick, UKZN spokesman said: “A notice with respect to the re-commencement of the academic programme will be issued in due course, both via an official Registrar Communiqué and on the university website.” He added: “Registration for both undergraduate and postgraduate students will, however, continue unabated. All students are urged to conclude their registration as soon as possible.” On Tuesday, 11 February concerned medical students from the UKZN Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, not affected by the protest, took a different approach and launched a campaign called IMadeADoctor, for public help to pay the debt owed. The medical students started the campaign in effort to raised R1million to cover historical debt of 118 MCHB students, who are also facing exclusion if their historical debt is not paid by the registration cut off date which has now been extended to 4pm on 6 March.In a broadcast interview with the SABC’s youth current affairs talk show, Expressions, ‘Fees Must Fall’ (FMF) activist Bonginkosi Khanyile said students have a right to be angry. He said if he was not under house arrest as a student of UKZN, he was going to be at the forefront of the current protest.“Government and the university have taken us back to 2015 where we had to fight for our education. They are reversing to the days of FMF, of which we had a minor victory, where government declared that by the end of the year there will be a zero percent fee increment and in 2017, former president Jacob Zuma officially declared this in his exiting speech in Nasrec, where he declared free education. All of us were rejoicing that we had won the battle. Now whether you are funded by a sponsor, NSFAS or you are an orphan, universities require you to pay 15 percent registration which is madness,” said Khanyile.He added that Higher Education and Training Minister, Blade Nzimande, has said that all students should be allowed to register, however, universities are now saying that it is not going to happen as they are also out of funds. Khanyile indicated that this was not fair to the students. He alleged that it was not the students who are burning the infrastructure, but security companies who want more money from the universities.“If you take a look and see how the protest starts, the students are calm and when the universities bring the police and securities up their forces that is when war is declared. The security companies are the ones who are burning and destroying the buildings so that they will be forced to bring more men onto the campus and obviously be paid more,” he concluded. The issues have not yet been resolved, however, a communique will be sent by the university notifying the public when classes will resume, as a meeting was held on Wednesday, 12 February awaiting outcomes.