Two of three convicted hijackers cried as they were finally punished for their criminal deeds, on 28 January 2020.The Ntuzuma Regional Court convicted and sentenced Qaphelani Shandu, 35 and Lucky Ncube, 28, to a lengthy jail term of 25 years for carjacking, attempted murder and armed robbery with aggravating circumstances as well as possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition following a 2017 hijacking in Siyanda.A third accused, Siphamandla Mpanza, was granted bail and absconded. He is still at large. KZN police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele said that on 29 December 2017 at 10.40pm, a 29-year-old man and his friends were in his stationery vehicle at Siyanda when they were approached by the suspects. The suspects ordered them out of their vehicle at gun point. They were robbed of their car keys and cellphones. The suspects fled in the stolen motor vehicle.“Police were immediately alerted with regards to the hijacked vehicle. Shortly afterwards, police officers from Ntuzuma SAPS spotted the vehicle and attempted to intercept it. The three men opened fire on police and a chase ensued.“When police eventually pulled the vehicle over, they found that Siphamandla Mpanza, 21, and Shandu had sustained gunshot wounds during the shootout. Two unlicensed firearms were found in their possession and they were taken to hospital under police guard,” said Mbele.   She said that the third suspect, Ncube, managed to evade arrest during the shootout, however, the investigating officer acting on a hunch that the suspect will require medical attention, managed to trace and arrest him.  “A case of carjacking, attempted murder and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition was opened in KwaMashu and Ntuzuma SAPS respectively for investigation. The suspects made several court appearances at the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court while in custody as their bail was opposed by the investigating officer.At At some stage Siphamandla Mpanza was granted bail by the court and he absconded. Mpanza is still at large after being granted bail, according to Mbele. The KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula commended the investigating officers for their dedication in ensuring that the accused received a fitting sentence.