Africa’s most dynamic thought-leaders, industry game-changers and icons of social activism are set to feature at the Forbes Woman Africa Leading Women Summit.Hosted by the KwaZulu-Natal government, the classy event will take place at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli ICC Complex in Durban on Friday, 6 March. This is the fifth edition of the globally-renowned event. Panellists and speakers will engage with the impactful 2020 theme, ‘The Ceiling Crashers 2020, Power with Purpose’.The thought-provoking discussions will be followed by the highly-anticipated Forbes Women Africa Awards Gala Dinner which celebrates the continent’s most influential female ‘ceiling crashers’ across a number of key categories.   “The Forbes Woman Africa Leading Women Summit has grown to become one of the biggest female-empowerment events, boasting a high calibre of attendees and unparalleled speaker line-up. This promises to be the biggest event, featuring female pioneers and path-breakers across the continent. Audiences will be exposed to dynamic discussions about the growing the number of women in leadership – something government and business really need to factor into their strategies. We will also get to grips with a new discourse that focuses on dismantling power structures and the need for truly inclusive cultures in business and society,” said Renuka Methil, managing editor of Forbes Woman Africa.She added that the event, which is hosted annually in honour of International Women’s Day, is expected to draw an audience of around 1 000 leading women. ” Through hard-hitting talks, fireside chats and insightful panel sessions centred on ‘ceiling crashers’, attendees will be inspired to make meaningful changes within their own industries, secure in the knowledge that they have the support of these innovative allies. This year’s programme promises an influential mix of leaders in healthcare and business; advocates of social and environmental activism; award-winning artists and internationally-renowned stateswomen,” added Methil.  Methil said for the first time, Forbes Woman Africa, will be releasing its own list of ‘Africa’s Most Powerful Women’, many of whom will be attending the summit. The list will be published in the March issue of the magazine, outlining those who have been leading ideas and industries while purposefully contributing to nation-building and positively impacting the lives around them.Beatrice Cornacchia, senior vice president, marketing and communications of the major sponsor, Mastercard Middle East and Africa, said: “African women are a vital source of innovation, prosperity, and economic growth. Yet inequality and exclusion still hold women back in many aspects of their everyday lives – from growing their businesses to having the financial tools to participate in the formal economy and from joining the c-suite to following their passions. We are proud to partner with Forbes Woman Africa as we believe that it is only by bringing diverse perspectives to the table that we can unlock Africa’s possibilities to women.”Keep updated on all the latest news and announcements on Twitter @LWSummit and join the conversation using the hashtags #LWS2020KZN #DOKZN