The need to update your will after a divorceIt’s a new year, and a new you, right?This year, almost one in five married South Africans will make the decision to start afresh and get a divorce.If you are one of those, we advise that as you put your life back together and not to forget one vital piece of admin, updating your will.The South African courts understand it takes time to get over a divorce, which is why the legal system gives you three months to update your will after you officially get divorced. So, if you pass away during this time, your ex may not have a claim on your estate and your children and heirs will receive your estate as you intended.However, your ex could inherit your estate if, three months lapses without you having updated your will. The courts will consider the wishes of the original will, and if your ex was named, they will still benefit. This would be problematic if you do not want your house, your car or your jewelry to go to your ex. Alternatively, review your will to make sure it reflects the changes in your personal life.Your ex could claim your children’s inheritanceAttaining a divorce agreement through the courts can be a difficult process that determines how your assets will be divided as well as child custody and visitation arrangements and whether either spouse pays maintenance or financial support to the other.While your will cannot change a divorce settlement agreement, it can however, ensure the orderly management of your wealth when you aren’t around to exercise personal control.For instance, your ex-spouse could still have a claim on your children’s inheritance but with a proper estate plan, you can account for the cost of maintenance obligations and protect your children’s inheritance through a Trust. This can be accommodated through reviewing and updating your will.Disadvantage to your new partnerRight now, you may just want to put the past behind you and move on with your life. Should you decide to remarry, you will need to update your will to make sure your new family, as well as your children from a former marriage, are taken care of should you pass away. Failing to update your will after a divorce may mean that your former spouse gets everything once you have passed on, to the disadvantage of your new partner.  You can make special bequests in your updated will to meet your financial responsibilities to your former spouse, without impacting your new family. This will give you the peace to move forward, positively.Looking aheadThe process of updating and reviewing your will need not be time consuming, complex or costly, but should be done every time you have a life changing event, such as: • A birth  • Marriage • Purchase or sale of a property •DivorceUpdating it every three to five years is essential to ensure your will remains current and reflects your wishes and financial circumstances. Should you require assistance in regards to the above, kindly contact our office to set up an appointment in which the relevant steps required in relation thereto will be discussed in detail. Disclaimer: This article is correct as at the time of going to press, however, it is no substitute for a consultation with an attorney. TEL: 031 402 0356EMAIL: luckylaw@rocketmail.com / conveyancing.luckylaw@gmail.com or litigation.luckylaw@gmail.com