EThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, has welcomed a report on the implementation of the City’s Indigent Policy in the 2020/2021 financial year at an Executive Committee meeting held on Tuesday, 25 February. A framework for the provision of a social package of benefits to the disadvantaged was discussed, which includes providing subsidised basic services to indigent households. The process will be closely monitored to ensure that the policy is not abused and will benefit indigent residents of the city who are truly deserving. Kaunda welcomed the report and said that  eThekwini is indeed a caring municipality. He urged residents who can afford to pay for basic services, to do so. He said: “We should be mindful of the fact that these services do not come cheap, the city spends a considerable amount of money for them to be provided unceasingly. Failure to pay for these services while some of us can afford to, will impede our city from living up to its constitutional mandate, to the detriment of all residents.” Once the draft indigent policy is approved, residents will need to qualify for the indigent support which includes making an application and meeting the following criteria: The household income must not be above the total stipulated household income, the applicant must be registered with the municipality for services and the property must also be for residential purposes only, with the municipal value of the property not above the stipulated value. An applicant who lives in an informal settlement may be eligible to qualify for basic municipal services, provided they meet the criteria. EThekwini deputy mayor, Belinda Scott described the policy as “excellent” and called for  monitoring mechanisms to guard against abuse. “In order to ensure the correct implementation of the policy there must be sufficient oversight. This includes home visits before and after approval. There must be monitoring and evaluation,” said Scott. The policy covers indigent support for child-headed households and indigent households in life right schemes and retirement complexes as well as for deceased estates. The extent of indigent support will include basic municipal services and rates relief, provided that funds are available for allocation. The duration will be for a maximum period of 24 months and will only be approved for qualifying households. A new application will be required for ensuing municipal financial year/s. The city said that the policy will be posted on the Municipal website with prescribed forms available at Customer Service Centres, Sizakala Centres and the Municipal website. It will be reviewed annually by the Revenue Management Unit.