The South Durban Community Environmental Alliance has rejected Eskom’s bid to increase electricity costs to recoup R27 billion in losses for the 2018/19 financial year.Desmond D’sa, a pioneer of the alliance, said Eskom must get its house in order, root out corrupt individuals and cease requesting tariff hikes via the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa). D’sa was among those who made representations at the recent two- day public hearings hosted by Nersa in Durban, to ascertain the views of NGO’s and others on Eskom’s proposal to have the electricity tariffs increased. “The alliance represents poor people in Merebank, Wentworth, Austerville, Clairwood and other areas in the South Basin in Durban. The increase which Eskom is seeking is not justified and if granted by Nersa will add to the financial woes of the poor. Further more than a decade has come and gone since Eskom promised that it would sort out the various issues which has plagued it.To date very little has been done to restore the confidence of South Africans in Eskom. Renewable energy which can solve the country’s electricity crisis, has not been on Eskom’s radar ,” said D’sa. Last year, Nersa held public hearings about Eskom’s application to increase tariffs by 15% every year, for the next three years. Nersa granted Eskom an increase of 9.41% for 2019/20, 8.10% for 2020/21 and 5.22% for 2021/22.Eskom’s general manager for regulation, Hasha Tlhotlhalemaje, said the reason for their application was because Nersa had given them too little money to produce electricity. “We understand and sympathise with the points raised by the NGOs and others. It’s not that we don’t care about ripple effect electricity increases has on people, businesses and families. For poor communities there are provisions such as free basic electricity of 50 kilowatts a month. Since the majority of people in KZN get their electricity from municipalities, then they should ensure that they are being provided with it. Government was making an effort, but it was the delivery of these services that was a concern,” said Tlhotlhalemaje.Mvuzo Ntombela, of the KwaMakhutha informal settlement, claimed attending the Nersa public hearings was a waste of time. “I attended and spoke at the hearing last year. I was disappointed when it was announced on TV news that Nersa had approved the increase. Eskom executives are not taking the plight of poor communities seriousl,” said Ntombela. Sizwe Shiba, from uMlazi, said it was unfair that the hearings were held only in central Durban. “The middle man or municipalities should be done away with. People should be allowed to buy their electricity tokens directly from Eskom. For example when a person buys electricity for R50, only 25 units of electricity is given.That amount of electricity won’t last two days,” said Shiba, Meanwhile Eskom’s urgent application in the Pretoria High Court to have electricity prices raised by 16.6% and then another 16.7% over the next two years, was dismissed by Judge Jody Kollapen last week. Eskom wanted the court to set aside the 2019 decision by the National Energy Regulator (Nersa), which approved far less increases than those sought by the embattled power utility. Judge Kollapen found the matter was not urgent and that the bid to have electricity prices raised would be heard on the normal court roll.Kollapen said Eskom had not satisfied the court that it would suffer immediate and irreparable harm. “Undue hardships faced by customers and the impact of such a price increase also need to be taken into account,” he said.