Ela Gandhi, the granddaughter of the late lawyer, politician and peace activist Mahatma Gandhi, said she was truly honoured after recently shaking hands and being blessed by Pope Francis in Rome, Italy.Gandhi was invited to Vatican, Rome, two weeks ago by the Women of Faith Network Organisation as a guest speaker at a conference celebrating the Interfaith Harmony Week. The conference is held in the first week of February.During her trip, Gandhi was invited to listen to the Pope at the Vatican, where he had spoken about the universality of all people and that people must love each other. A practicing Hindu herself, Gandhi said she has the greatest respect and admiration for the Pope. Gandhi said: “I feel truly blessed, he is simple, he truly cares for the people, those suffering from poverty and ill health. His economy of solidarity speaks to the idea of interconnectedness of all of humanity and nature.”She said the Pope advocates that people should contribute any surplus funds they have towards the programmes that benefit the impoverished. “He appeals to the conscience of people to change from just accumulating wealth, to giving to society and making a difference in the lives of others. So to be blessed by such a person is for me a great honour and I feel truly privileged,” said Gandhi.The activist was also given a medallion and a rosary, to mark her visit to the Vatican. Commenting on the speech she delivered, Gandhi said: “I spoke in the Senate Chambers of the Italian parliament and there were people of all faiths from many countries and our ambassador based in Italy.” Gandhi was last in Rome 10 years ago, and this time around she was grateful to have met the Pope and be blessed by him. “When the Pope blessed me, he asked that I must pray for him. It was my first time meeting the Pope and seeing him personally I feel blessed,” she added.Gandhi will celebrate her 80th birthday in July, She said: “I love Rome. It is a beautiful yet ancient place. I cannot get enough of the paintings and the Dome. There is a culture of walking. I enjoyed the walk through the city, in the company of hundreds of others.”