A rise in ATM scams, remote jamming and muggings in local night hotspots was discussed at last week’s Central Cluster CPF meeting where the chairperson, Imtiaz Syed, said that businesses in the area do not actively publicize any of the ATM related crimes committed on their property nor is the banking sector securing their outdoor ATM’s at garages and shopping centers. Syed advised the public not to allow any other person to assist with a transaction at the ATM as the modus operandi of criminals is to swop the card in the machine. He said that the miscreants work in pairs. “If you need to use an outdoor ATM, try to use your banking app first to do a cash send, using a cardless transaction. Also ensure that your surroundings are safe and secure,” said Syed. Residents have been advised by eThekwini central communications spokes person, Captain Muzi Maphumulo, to make use of the MY SAPS app which allows citizens to access police services and information and to form a solid relationship with their local CPF. This will equip citizens with knowledge in the event of an unfortunate situation. “Precautionary measures lead to the prevention of being a victim to crime. Try to utilise indoor facilities when withdrawing cash and if you absolutely have to use an outdoor ATM, be aware of your surroundings, look over your shoulder before entering any of your details and do not share your information. If an individual offers you assistance by identifying themselves as a bank representative, ask them for physical identification so that you will not fall prey to a scam,” said Maphumulo. Maphumulo also advised the public that if they are unsure of a transaction or have forgotten any information, the individual should cancel the transaction and be sure to press the cancel button twice. “Another tip is to avoid having your valuable devices visible inside your vehicle as this will attract the unwanted attention of a wrongdoer. It is better to be safe than sorry,” said Maphumulo. The CPF has also urged residents to be vigilant when using e-hailing services especially at night and to ensure that the driver, vehicle and number plate corresponds with the requested e-hailing service provider before getting into the vehicle.