“WIZ” is not a wizard but a new drug and the latest scourge to hit schools in the Durban South area. The drug is legally available over the counter in tobacco selling shops. This week saw parents, residents and the community of Chatsworth shaken because Durban South is the neighbouring community. In spite of the “Not for human consumption” warning on the packet, it has been reported that school pupils are allegedly smoking “WIZ” and falling sick. Communications officer of Wentworth SAPS, Captain Mbuso Gumede said: “Police are aware of the “WIZ” narcotic. We have recently heard about it but have not seen it as yet. Police will be doing investigations and research to obtain more information. Once we have collected enough information on the substance, we will be going into schools to sensitise the pupils on the drug.” Merebank community activist, Sharin Rajman said: “We need to find the source of this drug and get rid of it before more pupils get hooked, which could become another “sugars” or “whoonga” scenario for youngsters. As a community, we should report everyone we know that are selling and consuming the drug. We need to assist our youth as we believe that it takes a village to raise a child irrespective if it’s your child or not. It affects the community at large so we should take a stand collectively and assist the youth.” The packaging of the product reflects the name of the company “Herbology”. However, the company has denied involvement with the product saying that they are in the process of serving papers on the individuals misrepresenting their brand name. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, the company spokesperson Marcus Stephen’s said  ” We are an ethical and popular herbalist that unequivocally distances our business from this dangerous product.  We are mortified that these elicit chemicals are being consumed by our vulnerable youth.” According to research, these drugs are extremely harmful if consumed by humans and parents are encouraged to monitor their children’s behaviour.