Umbilo police are investigating a case of attempted murder after a man was shot by an unknown suspect at his home on Baines Avenue, on Monday night, 17 February. According to Blue Security community and media liaison officer, Andreas Mathios, two friends had their Monday evening shattered when armed intruders invaded the Glenmore home and shot the resident.“The incident occurred just after 7pm, when the resident went outside to investigate why his dog was barking. When his friend, who was sitting inside, heard a scuffle and went to see what was going on he saw an unknown intruder wielding a firearm,” Mathios said. “While hiding behind a wall, the friend heard a single gunshot and then discovered his wounded friend lying on the ground.The resident had sustained a gunshot wound to his right leg,” added Mathios. The gunman had fled. Mathios said, “CCTV footage confirms the incident. The two balaclava-clad men were seen scaling the front gate, a firearm was passed over and they ran onto the veranda. A few seconds later they were seen fleeing the property. The footage also revealed a white BMW passing the home a short while prior to the incident before returning and parking near the entrance.”Members of Umbilo SAPS and paramedics attended the scene and the injured resident was transported to hospital for further treatment. “The motive for the shooting is still unknown and the case is under investigation,” said Mathios.Rescue Care Managing Director, Garrith Jamieson, said, “The man had sustained a gunshot wound to his lower leg and was in a serious condition. Advanced Life Support Paramedics worked to stabilise the man on the scene before transporting him to a nearby hospital for the further care that he required.”Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said, “A case of attempted murder was opened at Umbilo police station for investigation. The complainant alleged that at 7.15pm, he was at his home on Baines Road in Umbilo watching TV when an unknown suspect entered his home and opened fire. He sustained a gunshot wound on the leg and was taken to hospital for medical attention.”“Installing CCTV cameras in or outside one’s home or business is not just a preventative or detection measure, but it is also really useful when bringing criminals to justice,” Mathios said. “CCTV footage can be really helpful in assisting with identification of criminals or analysis of incidents. The footage of the suspicious vehicle in the area before the incident also highlights the common modus operandi of perpetrators in observing their intended victims or crime scene before they carry out their plan,” he added.“It is vital to make a note of unfamiliar or suspicious-looking vehicles in an area and to alert the local security company or SAPS of such, so that crime-prevention patrols can be stepped up,” said Mathios.