<br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Pet activist and rescuer at the Ashburne Vet in Durban North, Neeri Naidoo says people should love and care for the animals first before they can donate food and other necessities to them. “Most people feel that if they pick up a phone and dial our number for help then their job is done, it is not. Everyone needs to realise that if they see animals or even humans in need, it is their responsibility to act and try to help them. People need to sterilise their pets. If every single person can sterilise their dogs, we won’t have an over population of unwanted animals. There won’t be animals running around and getting knocked and abused. “People need to do that first, then they can decide to donate towards animal organisations,” she said. Naidoo is the founder of the Phoenix Animal Care and Treatment (PACT). She said that they feed over 80 animals everyday.  Some of the animals they feed are up for adoption, others are from homes in the community where there is no food, they take them in and are responsible for them. Naidoo said their biggest challenge is that they do not have their own premises to house rescued animals. “Operating without premises is challenging because we receive a large amount of pets everyday. We don’t have enough resources and that means we have to turn some of them away without any help, while others we cannot reach,” she said.While Naidoo has found foster homes for all of the animals, she is still urgently looking for ‘forever homes’ for some. PACT hosted several ‘adoption days,’ in various locations around Durban including Durban North and eMdloti in a bid to find homes for animals. She said that an adoption day offers the community an opportunity to meet the dogs that are up for adoption.Naidoo said they do a full strict check-up before releasing the animals for adoption. “Those interested in adopting a pet, can meet the dogs and fill out an application form. We are very careful of who adopts, we even do home checks and adoption fees apply,” said Naidoo. People interested in adopting or donating can contact Naidoo on 073 005 4275.