With the recent ongoing battle between Eskom and the National Energy Regulator SA (NERSA) over Eskom’s proposal to increase tariffs, the Pretoria High Court made a ruling on Monday (10 February) to dismiss Eskom’s application for a increase by 16.6 percent in April and by 16.7 percent in the next financial year.  Eskom lost its court application to be granted higher tariff increases for the next two years. During negotiations between NERSA and Eskom, the national regulator had awarded Eskom increases of 8.1 percent in the current financial year, and 5.2 percent for the next one. However, Eskom felt that without the percentage they had requested, it and the Economy of South Africa would suffer catastrophic harm. The court decided that the matter was not urgent but still needed to be reviewed. On Monday (10 February), Eskom announced that it would be implementing stage one load shedding which suggested that it was recovering with the load shedding. The power utility said its emergency reserves recovered enough to allow the parastatal to downgrade the power cuts. As a result stage 2 load shedding was suspended on Sunday (9 February), after a week of disruption countrywide. In a statement Eskom said they would be giving a public update on Monday (10 February), on the state of the system. “Unplanned outages or breakdowns were at 11 126MW on Monday around 4pm. Our teams are working hard to reduce unplanned outages. We will continue conducting critical maintenance on units that are currently on planned outages to reduce the depth and frequency of load shedding. While the dam levels have recovered adequately enough to allow for a reduction to stage 1 load shedding, there is still some work being done to improve the diesel stocks, ” read the statement. In court, Eskom said they want the decision not to increase tariffs to be reviewed and set aside, arguing that the tariff hikes will not be enough to keep them afloat. The power supplier’s spokesperson Sikonathi Manshantsha said: The heart of the issue was NERSA’s decision to deduct R23 billion received from government and treating that as revenue.”
This meant that we will be losing out. Nersa disagreed saying that Eskoms incompetence and maladministration resulted in the public paying more money.