The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli has vowed to tackle head-on, the murder of police officers. Ntuli was commenting in the wake of two separate incidents which saw two police officers killed in the province recently. A 33-year-old officer was killed in Musgrave, Durban, when he tried to confront a suspicious looking vehicle. The suspects opened fire and fled the scene. One suspect was detained and later released while the other suspect was arrested in Pietermaritzburg while attempting to board a bus to Johannesburg. He was found in possession of a SAPS service pistol which was robbed from a police official in Umlazi in December 2019. In a separate incident a 55-year-old police officer was also killed in New Germany. He was attacked coming from a local shop and killed by unknown assailants.The suspects are still at large. Sadly, and coincidentally, these brutal killings happened at a time when the country is commemorating National Police Day. Ntuli called on police management to ensure the safety of police and support them with all necessary resources, to prevent any further loss of life in the hands of criminals. “Losing two experienced police officers in such a short space of time is painful and unacceptable. This act of criminality needs to be confronted by all of us because it is a direct attack on the state and the rule of law. I have asked the police management in the province to invest all necessary resources to make sure that the remaining suspects are arrested. The violence against the police must be a concern for all of us and we must unite in defending our police,” said Ntuli. Ntuli said the Department of Community Safety and Liaison in the province will activate all community structures and mobilise them to intensify their efforts in a bid to end police killings. He said in the last financial year, 18 police officers were killed in KwaZulu-Natal. Three were killed while they were on-duty and fifteen died off-duty. The department previously rolled-out impactful campaigns such as Sekwanele, which was aimed at galvanising the community against the scourge of police killings.Through these interventions and other programmes such as the One Million Signature Campaign Against Police Killings, reported incidents of police killings subsided. “Our focus will be to conscientise people and their role in protecting the police against heavily armed and merciless criminals. Police must not hesitate to defend themselves and they must refuse to die in the hands of criminals with a gun in their hands. Police are the only shield between criminals and innocent civilians, therefore, we must protect our protectors,” added Ntuli.