To reach out to the greater Durban North community and enable them to see the opportunities and dreams they can achieve, is one of the main roles The Seed Fund organisation seeks to achieve.When she started the NPO in August 2017, Arianne Hayes-Hill, who is the chairperson, a church planter and leader at His Life Vineyard Church in Durban North, desired to bring significant changes in people’s lives.Speaking to Durban North News, Hayes- Hill said that severe poverty comes with hardships and struggles, and the community of the Malacca Informal Settlement are no strangers to this reality. She said that their primary focus is on children in the informal settlements.“In aiming to provide a nurturing environment that will cultivate strong and capable individuals, our objectives are to provide each child with meals per day, part or total payment of primary and tertiary educational fees, school uniforms and stationery.“We, also among other things have established an Early Childhood Development (ECD), project that will help children in the community, including the after school programme currently operating from a container,” said Hayes-Hill.The NPO has 63 children from the community with 44 of them already in schools,11 at the ECD programme and the rest in the church programme. Hayes-Hill shared that the organisation is looking to start a soup kitchen, so that children can have food when they come back from school. Currently, the organisation is looking for volunteers to assist with the home work programme.  She said that as an organisation, they believe that education is powerful and essential.“Our homework centre runs every day from 3pm. The goal of our centre is to provide an opportunity for our kids to read, learn English and practice mathematics. They do puzzles and feel cared for which is important. The only way that we can do this is through the help of the community. We need a volunteer on a weekly basis teaching one specific child, using a step-by-step structured English reading programme. Commitment can be on a termly basis,” she said.“We are constantly looking for experienced English or mathematics teachers who can help our children to understand and grasp the concepts of these subjects,” she added. Like any other organisation, The Seed Fund has also encountered challenges in terms of resources needed to carry out the work. Hayes-Hill said that they welcome donations in terms of cash, clothes and other items that can be of use to children. As an NPO they rely mostly on funding from their generous donors.” Donations from our sponsors have enabled us to resolve a variety of health and medical issues.  In less serious cases, children are taken to the nearby clinic and treated accordingly with prescribed medication. In more serious situations, we have been able to provide transport to the relevant government hospitals,” she said.Hayes-Hill said: “Although the community are living in destitute conditions, residents are friendly and hospitable among their struggles and inconveniences.  In commencing the upliftment process with the children, we’ve adopted a holistic approach because we are convinced that being unwanted, unloved and uncared for is the greatest poverty.” For more information on volunteers, Jess can be contacted on 082 424 2436 and for organisational information, Hayes-Hill can be contacted on 083 440 3126.