“You’d have to be deaf to understand.” This simple sentence, with a heavy meaning, was the title of a poem performed by pupils of the VN Naik School for the Deaf at the launch of Talk Sign 2020, today (5 February). The event, which was born seven years ago by the KwaZulu-Natal Blind and Deaf Society, aimed at promoting the informative campaign to assist people in communicating with those who are hearing impaired. “This campaign targets schools, businesses, corporate bodies and government departments such as emergency services, hospitals and the police,” said the President of the KZN Blind and Deaf Society, Veetha Sewkuran during the welcome address. Sewkuran also added important pointers when interacting with a deaf person such as maintaining eye contact, speaking slowly and with facial expressions so that they are able to lip read and if one is still having trouble communicating, they could always write it down for the person to read. The event was also marked as a homecoming for the KZN Blind and Deaf Society as the VN Naik School for the Deaf was established by the Society in 1983. They believe that there could not have been a better place than the school to launch Talk Sign 2020. The keynote speaker left everyone in awe with her graceful nature and motivating words. Thabile Mathumbu, an ex-learner of VN Naik School for the Deaf and Kwa Thintwa School for the Deaf, inspired the students with her story. Mathumbu was the top achieving deaf student nationwide in the National Senior Certificate 2019 exams after the Department of Basic Education introduced sign language as an examinable subject last year. She bagged distinctions in South African sign language, maths literacy, visual art and life orientation as well as obtaining a bachelor’s pass. “We can do anything, we are not stupid. We also have hands to feel, legs to walk and eyes to see. We are just like normal people who can hear. Children who are deaf should never feel lonely or sidelined, ” said Mathumbu. The bright eyed lass also explained that she had to teach her parents and siblings sign language as she believes that communication is key. She said that the opportunities are endless for hearing impaired people when they are accepted and understood by society. The learners of VN Naik School for the Deaf also left no stone unturned in showing the audience their talent and ability to do things that any other child can. Apart from the poem titled, “You’d have to be deaf to understand”, the learners performed a sing and sign item to “That’s what friends are for” by award winning artist Dionne Warwick, in which they signed out the lyrics to the song. To conclude the event, they also performed a Zulu dance by hearing the vibration of the drums. Members of the Talk Sign team urge the public to support them on 13 March to commemorate Talk Sign Day by purchasing a sticker from selected outlets as well as listening in and supporting their Radiothon drive which will be aired on the same day on Hindvani.