Following the recent e-hailing driver protest in Johannesburg last week, e-hailing drivers are speaking up about their unfair working conditions and the safety of their lives while on the job. During the eThekwini Central Cluster Community Police Forum (CPF) meeting last week, the ongoing issue of the working and safety conditions of the e-hailing industry was discussed. Chairperson of the eThekwini Central Cluster CPF, Imtiaz Syed said: “The e-hailing industry, is faced with many issues. They have now formed themselves into the KwaZulu-Natal E-hailing Association to address the two main issues of the rise in hijackings, in which criminals pose as trip seekers and hijacked vehicles that are cloned or used in the commission of a crime.” Still in it’s sixth month of existence, the KZN E-hailing Association requires more owners and drivers to became a part of the association so that they are able to voice their concerns to the e-hailing service companies themselves. Ex-chairperson and current board member of the association, Ryan Naicker said: “Our body is trying to get recognized by the e-hailing service companies, however, we need to mobilise as a full body of people with more drivers and owners. At the moment, our board consists of 15 area representatives in KZN. For us to be taken seriously, we need a united front.” The association is a non-profit organisation which aims to defend, protect and promote the interests of its members while creating a platform for the KZN E-hailing industry to speak with one voice in a “unity in diversity” form on matters affecting the industry. According to e-hailing driver, Ashley Ramsamy, the worst part of operating the service is the intimidation caused by local taxi associations when they are on the job. “We are permitted to operate in certain areas such as some malls, which we pay for, however, drivers and passengers are often subject to violent intimidation from the taxi association as they threaten the passengers to only use public transportation.” Ramsamy said that constant promotions in which passengers get massive discounts makes him fall short of his target. Ravichandran Chetty, also an e-hailing driver said that when he gets into the car in the morning, he risks his life. ” Its not known who I am going to be traveling with or where I are going. I drive almost 15 hours a day just to make my commission which doesn’t round up to much as the fuel cost that is taken up by the driver,” said Chetty. Naicker has also suggested that there are certain e-hailing service companies that need to implement stringent verification systems in order to better screen and track their drivers. “Most serious crimes with e-hailing drivers occur when they undertake private trips. These cannot be tracked via the app and makes it difficult to serve justice to the affected party, ” said Naicker. Drivers and owners wishing to join the association can email info@kzneha.co.za or WhatsApp 060 400 3241.