A 72-year-old pensioner was strangled to death while her daughter was brutally assaulted in an apparent home invasion in Robin Street, Kharwastan. It is alleged that two armed robbers entered their home on Tuesday, 18 February at about 7.15am, overpowering the elderly woman and her daughter while ransacking the house. The alleged armed robber stole R50 000 worth of household item and cash. Confirming the incident, Captain Cheryl Pillay of Chatsworth SAPS, said: “A 72-year-old pensioner was strangled to death following a house robbery that occurred at Robin Street in Kharawastan, Chatsworth. It is alleged that the pensioner was at home when two suspects entered the home overpowering her. Her daughter who tried to render assistance was assaulted by the suspects. The suspects fled with household items valued at approximately R50 000. Police have intensified their search for the suspects.” Chatsworth SAPS is investigating a case of murder and house robbery. Anyone who can assist police is urged to contact Chatsworth SAPS on 031 451 4267 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Police are advising residents to be alert at all times. “Secure your property ensuring that all gates and windows are properly locked,” Pillay said. According to Garrith Jamieson of Rescue Care Paramedics, when paramedics arrived at the scene, they found that a lady in her seventies had apparently been strangled. “She showed no signs of life and was declared deceased on the scene. Another female in her forties had sustained serious injuries and was stabilised on the scene by Rescue Care Advanced Life Support Paramedics before being transported to a nearby hospital for further care,” Jamieson said. PRO of Kharwastan CPF, Sam Pillay, who was present at the scene said: “It is devastating news to be hearing about a murder in the area that I live in. This is heart-breaking because we are doing so much as the CPF to keep the area safe and things of this nature are still occurring. We have patrols and WhatsApp groups in place and residents are encouraged to communicate on these groups. I am saddened by this news, because we are always aware and yet a murder happened in our backyard. This area has been identified as a weak spot in Kharwastan as there are informal settlements close by. We have had many other minor incidents that occur regularly, like stolen copper pipes and robberies, but this is the first serious incident.”