Democratic Alliance (DA) members are shooting fire balls after being denied entry by the KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu, to  Addington Hospital in South Beach, Durban on Thursday, 6 February. DA members in KZN had gathered at the hospital to address  complaints that have allegedly been laid by staff and patients at the hospital. According to DA KZN spokesperson for Health, Rishigen Viranna, the party had received numerous calls and texts from the public complaining about the service received at the hospital. ” We have received complaints from the public and it is our duty to act. We have tried many times to gain entry at the hospital. This despite having followed the procedure set out by the Department of Health (DoH) and requesting permission to conduct the inspection. ” After being denied access earlier this morning, I contacted the office of the HOD, Sandile Tshabalala. I was informed that it was in fact the MEC who, yesterday, did not authorise the oversight visit. No reasons were given and at this stage the DA still has no formal notification for being barred entry,” said Viranna. Viranna said that this has proved to them that the MEC has something to hide or else she would not be stopping them. ” Clearly they are hiding something. The patients are saying the inside facilities including the lifts are not working. They have to walk up the stairs to get to other floors for treatment. The hospital  is a multi-storey providing vital emergency medical services to hundreds of thousands of people. Of particular concern to the DA, is that the DoH has already spent millions of rands repairing the lifts during the past few years. Yet they remain dysfunctional, affecting the health and well-being of patients, staff and visitors to the hospital, some of whom are forced to climb as many as 14 storeys. As the DA, we won’t rest until we get answers,” said Viranna. DA Councillor Nicole Graham also agreed with Viranna saying that the quality of service and other problems patients endure, is unacceptable. ” As public representatives who work with and for the people, we came to the hospital to get  to the bottom of what is going on. For them not to allow us in shows that they are disrespecting us and have something to hide. The pictures and reports that we get about the hospital is clear that the hospital is in a terrible state. It is very disappointing and frustrating that they are not doing what they are supposed to do,” said Graham. The DA said they will be notifying the chairperson of the Health Portfolio Committee about their Thursday oversight visit being blocked and will demand that the matter be placed on the agenda for the next committee meeting. “In addition, we will call for a portfolio committee oversight visit of Addington Hospital. It cannot be that millions of rands of taxpayers’ money is spent on a facility which remains dysfunctional while elected officials cannot see how the money is being spent,” said Viranna. Responding to the above allegations, Simelane-Zulu said she will not allow her name to be dragged into competition and squabbling for cheap publicity between the DA and other opposing parties. ” I have been  actively championing infrastructural improvements at the hospital, and for the party to attempt to grandstand over known issues that are receiving attention smacks of their desperation,” said the MEC. Simelane-Zulu said that hospitals are extremely sensitive spaces, where patients’ rights to privacy and dignity are paramount, and should be protected from intrusion by opportunists with narrow and self-serving interests.
 
“As parties represented in the Provincial Legislature, they should be aware of the processes that need to be followed when seeking to visit healthcare facilities. Oversight visits by members of provincial legislature are facilitated by the portfolio committee through the chairperson of that committee. Members are also aware that requests for oversight visits are not tantamount to approval,” she added.
  
The MEC said that currently two lifts are functional at the hospital and the sluice machine in the laundry, which broke down in December, is receiving attention. “A contractor has been appointed to conduct repairs to the machine and is currently awaiting the arrival of replacement parts. In the meantime, a contingency plan is in place, which entails sending some of the laundry to Cato Manor Hospital. It must be noted that the hospital has serious infrastructural challenges due to its age, as well as its location directly along the coast. ” This previously Whites-only hospital, caters for a large community of people from the Durban CBD, neighbouring communities, and people referred from other lower-level healthcare facilities. In order for the Department to adequately and speedily address the hospital’s infrastructural challenges, it would have to close down,” she said. Simelane-Zulu said the Department remains committed to addressing the immediate challenges at the hospital and is currently considering a number of options regarding its future, not least of which is its possible relocation, so that it can be re-modelled into a fully-functional, fit-for-purpose healthcare facility.