Two suspects were arrested within a space of two days after the shocking murder of Kharwastan pensioner, 72-year-old Dukhi Radha Dasi. A 30-year-old man who was allegedly the gardener, was arrested on Wednesday (19 February) while his co-accused, a 33-year-old man was arrested during the early hours of this morning, (Thursday, 20 February).  Provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker said, “During the early hours of this morning, a multidisciplinary operation was held at Ndwedwe where a second suspect was arrested for the murder of a 72-year-old pensioner from Kharwastan. Police recovered a small amount of cash together with a cellular phone. The 33-year old man will appear with his co-accused at the Chatsworth Magistrates Court tomorrow on charges of murder and house robbery.” CPF chairman, Jakes Singh confirmed that the second suspect was arrested in the early hours of this morning by Chatsworth SAPS and Metro Police Chatsworth. He congratulated the SAPS for their dedication to their job. The Chatsworth community was left in disbelief following the heinous murder of elderly Kharwastan woman, it is alleged that Dasi, was strangled with her sari in her prayer room. Her daughter, who tried to intervene, was also attacked. The suspects fled the scene with R50 000 worth of house-hold items and cash. According to sources, the men entered the home after the woman’s husband had left for work.” PRO of Kharwastan CPF, Sam Pillay said, “The Kharwastan CPF urges the community to support our initiatives to ensure the security and safety of our communities. We are extremely pleased to learn about the arrest of the second perpetrator in the murder of our beloved 72-year-old resident. Congratulations to the police for the speedy arrests. We trust that there won’t be granting of bail and that successful convictions will ensue.” The deceased, Dasi is a disciple of His Holiness Partha Sarathi Das Goswami and stalwart follower of Srila Prabhupada. Her funeral will be held on today at the family home in Robin Street, Kharwastan, Chatsworth. Everyone at Sri Sri Radha Radhanath Temple and the greater Vaishnava community said they will deeply miss Dasi.