With a host of skills and awards under her belt, Shabnam Palesa Mohamed, 41, is a woman of beauty, with a brain, compassion and inspiration. Armed as an activist, journalist, producer-presenter, empowerment speaker, writer, poet, editor and attorney, Mohamed’s passion has always been as an activist. “For me, activism, which is actively making a positive difference in our world and often at great personal risk and cost, runs through the other connected roles I fulfill in my life,” said Mohamed. Growing up in Chatsworth, Mohamed was raised by her grandparents, Zohra Bibi and Abdul Samud, until the age of five and thereafter began and concluded her academic career at Anjuman Primary School and Orient Islamic School respectively. She has since relocated to central Durban. The creative leader fondly reminisced how both schools and their educators encouraged her to express herself through poetry, writing, community service, human rights solidarity and sports, for which she is eternally grateful. Described best as an introverted but expressive child growing up, Mohamed always looks for balance in life. “Through it all, the desire to empower people ran strong. This, I have my parents to thank for. My mother is actively involved in community work and my father is a published author,” said Mohamed. “I have a good balance in the roles that I play and they relate to each other, often seamlessly. I am passionate about education and the arts and i manage the 26-year-old Centre for Fine Art, Animation and Design, which has nurtured the careers of highly successful alumni. I believe we need to encourage creativity among young people, and support their choices to enter the creative field – which is contributing millions to our country’s GDP,” said Mohamed. Mohamed’s pet project, Womandla, a collection of memoirs, opinion pieces, empowerment writing, short stories and poetry, was launched last year at a vibrant book launch event where ten phenomenal women including Judge Navi Pillay,Dr Betty Govinden, Dr Gcina Mhlophe, Cookie Edwards and Caroline Smart were honored with Raised Fist Awards for their tireless work. The second edition of the book is in the pipeline and aims to break free of the stigma attached to abuse of any kind. “I founded the project, which is supported by the likes of Dr Nanda Soobben. Professor Zakes Mda and Dr Ronnie Govender, because I know that women have stories to tell and views to share. Through Womandla, women were able to write and be published in five genres: memoir, opinion, empowerment writing, short stories and poetry, in both English and IsiZulu.” said Mohamed. She said that the second edition will still have the same five genres, with submissions welcome in both English and isiZulu. ” Our board, Aisha Mponda Kilumbilo, Aileen Chetty and I have decided that the difference this year will be a special focus on breaking free of the stigma attached to abuse of any kind and speaking out boldly in this powerful edition, themed Survivors and Activists,” said Mohamed. Mohamed credits her conquering child abuse, gender-based violence and leukemia as some of her life’s greatest blessings. Five years into remission, the survivor claims that through the traumatic experiences of tests, procedures and meeting people with chronic conditions, she had found a deeper understanding of herself and what is important in life. This award winning individual has her fingers in many pies as she is a qualified mediator, helping individuals, groups and organizations to resolve disagreements in a creative manner while also focusing on family law, contracts, labour law and human rights disputes. She also hosts a radio show called Influencers Corner on Salaamedia, conversing with renowned judges, everyday heroes and homeless individuals. Although Mohamed was encouraged not to stifle her opinions as a girl child, she advises young South African girls that their voice matters. “You are important, kind, brave, intelligent, and interesting. Let nobody dim your spark and shine. You are going to change the world.” said Mohamed.