Erica Floweday and Darren Stevenson will be celebrating their love with the rest of the world this Valentine’s Day. The love birds met through a circle of friends in Pinetown at the Imperial Hotel in 1994.After 25 years, they can still put their love into words. Floweday said what she loves about her husband is his smile. “His smile still lights up my world, he is my sunlight. He is a gentle human who loves with every fibre of his being,” said Floweday. Stevenson said that he still feels the same way about his wife as the first time they met.“Erica’s passion for people and life brings the best out in her. The love I have for her is one I can’t explain, she is my everything in this world, she makes me whole,” said Stevenson.The lovebirds said their most romantic memory was when they were on a a beach in Thailand, eating crab curry with the moonlight reflecting off the ocean while drinking cocktails and wine. “Just being able to stare at each other while lapping up the beauty of the surroundings. Erica looked radiant that night in a white dress and golden brown tan,” Stevenson saidHe said the secret to keeping the relationship flames burning is that their life is a lot of both in everything they do. “We are strong believers in supporting each other through thick and thin, good times and bad times everyone has them. To love each other’s abilities and limitations are instrumental in any relationship,” they said.Both Floweday and Stevenson are business owners and believe that having each others support is key. “Darren helps me manage my busy world,” said Floweday. Being in a relationship for 25 years is no child’s’ play and Stevenson and Floweday both agreed that a relationship is a journey that has its highs and lows. “For newlyweds, remembering why you are together and what brought you together is key. There will be dark times but believe in each other and be open and honest about your intentions. Communication is also key to success. Remember to back each other up, cause you are now a team and teams work together. Always be your partners biggest champion, share each other’s lives, never stop laughing and talking. Never go to bed angry,” they said.The couple said that being the of best friends, having date night, regularly is so important in a world that is constantly rushing. “Two halves make up one, for us that is key. We are soulmates, each other’s party animal, voice of reason, conscience. We both stand taller and braver together than apart. “We see each other first each day and last at night. Life apart makes no sense to either of us. It is a relationship of love that make unequivocal sense to us and neither of us could imagine been less, we are each other’s heart and soul,” Stevenson and Floweday concluded.