KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, said the city of KZN is excited to host WFS Africa, the first ever African edition of the largest event in the global football industry, which will turn Durban into the capital of the football business.Presenting the official launch Zikalala said: “We are excited and very proud to play host to such a global event that brings all those involved in the business of sports together. The two day event will gather the most relevant stakeholders in the global and regional industry at the ICC on 17 and 18 March.”WFS Africa is expected to bring together over 1 000 attendees and 80 top speakers from 50 different countries, as well as some of the main sponsoring brands and the most influential national and international media houses. The economic impact of WFS summits for the host city exceeds 12 million euros, according to reports released by World Football Summit. The eThekwini Municipal Mayor, Councillor Mxolisi Kaunda said: “This was indeed a vote of confidence to us that we remain the preferred venue for major international events. This will once again position Durban as a globally competitive city for investment and a venue of choice for sport events.” Cllr Kaunda added that the WFS also present the Province with an opportunity to showcase the province’s state-of-the-art infrastructure built during 2010 FIFA World Cup.  Although the football industry in Africa is not as mature yet as it is in other regions, the organisers believe it will be a crucial location in upcoming years.  “We are absolutely convinced that the region gathers all the necessary ingredients for the football industry to bloom.  The passion and talent that exists in Africa for football is unmatchable to that of anywhere else. Africa also has 20% of the world’s youngest population making it a market with a huge potential for growth”, said WFS Director Jan Alessie.   Alessie is confident that this will mark the beginning of a long-term relationship between WFS and Durban. “Today, we’re putting the first brick in an event which wants to build a robust and long-lasting house not only for WFS, but also for the African industry”, he said. WFS started in Madrid in 2016 and it currently hosts yearly summits in Madrid and in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia),” said Alessie.  Also present at the media launch were MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, acting MEC for Arts, Culture Sport and Recreation Kwazi Mshengu, (representing MEC Hlengiwe Mavimbela), Members of the Executive Council and Members of Provincial Legislature.