Members of Ithemba Labantu, an NPO, along with the pupils at Barracuda Primary School gathered at the school on Tuesday, 11 February to celebrate the 101st birthday of Alice Joan Gaillard Fernandez. Fernandez is the oldest living person in the Newlands East community after moving to the area in 1979. Durban born Fernandez, started off her academic career at Albert Street’s School and concluded at St. Pilomena’s Catholic Orphanage at the age of 15 when she began work at Monarchs Clothing Factory. After leaving work at age 17, she married the love of her life Caitino (Nelson) Fernandez who sadly passed away in 1984. The couple, who would’ve been married for 83 years, have five children. Fernandez gladly sang along with the pupils to her birthday song and even rendered a version of the 1959 pop song, “Among My Souvenirs” by Connie Francis. Fernandez was gifted a new wheel chair by IMA Baytul-Nur in conjunction with Ithemba Labantu and the soup kitchen at Barracuda Primary received a gas stove from Ithemba Labantu on behalf of a good samaritan. Chairperson of Ithemba Labantu, Shaida Marcus said, “The whole idea of celebrating Mrs Fernandez is to acknowledge the seniors in our community – to treasure and honour them as they are the library in which we can learn from. We need the guidance of our elders to assist us in making them feel needed in our lives as they know best how to live a long and happy life.” With an army of 19 grandchildren, 43 great grand children and 9 great great grandchildren, Fernandez is still a bundle of laughs who is not shy to express herself with some elderly advice. “Remember to put God first in everything you do. Respect your parents and married life and make your best effort in raising your children the right way. Don’t take life too seriously and always make time for a joke or two,” Fernandez advised. Ward councillor Shontel De Boer was also present at the event and said that it is always an honour to be in the presence of the elderly. “Fernandez is one of the oldest members of our community and even at 101, she’s inspirational, full of passion and positivity.  My wish for Mrs Fernandez is that she remains the inspirational woman that she is and I pray she continues to be a blessing to her family and the community,” concluded De Boer.