An operation into an investigation of stolen railway tracks and sleepers yielded positive results when members of the Provincial Non-Ferrous Task Team recovered about R8 million of metal at a scrapyard in Maydon Wharf, on Friday, 7 February.KZN police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said that on the night of Thursday, 6 February, members of the Provincial Non-Ferrous Task Team received intelligence of stolen Transnet infrastructure at a scrap yard situated on South Coast Road in Maydon Wharf. The team immediately sprang into action and began investigations into the source of the stolen metal. “During the night, the team began following up on leads with regards to the stolen railway tracks and railway sleepers. On Friday morning, the team was joined by officials from Transnet, PRASA and Telkom. They proceeded to the identified bulk metal scrapyard and discovered tons of railway lines and railway sleepers on the site. The items were positively identified by a representative of Transnet as belonging to them,” Naicker said.He added: “Staff at the premises were questioned with regards to the property and they produced documentation which indicated that the items were authorised for sale by PRASA. The letter was sent to PRASA head office for verification and it was established that the letter was fraudulent. A total of 181 tons of Transnet infrastructure was seized by police. The items have an estimated value of R8 million.”According to Naicker, further investigation led police to the owners of a scrap yard located in Greytown. Investigations revealed that the railway lines were removed from Greytown and two suspects aged 31 and 59 were arrested. The suspects appeared in the Greytown Magistrate’s Court for tampering with essential infrastructure.  The KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula applauded the Provincial Non-Ferrous Task Team for the arrest of the suspects and the recovery of the stolen property. “The theft of railway lines is of great concern as it has serious implications for our transport infrastructure. Members of the Provincial Non-Ferrous Task Team must be commended for the recent arrests across the province where thieves have been nabbed for stealing electricity cables and other essential infrastructure,” he said.