An inquest has been opened at the Phoenix police station after a body of a 47-year-old woman, was found in a state of decomposition inside her Reedhaven Place residence, on Saturday. Identified as Grace Govender, the woman is reported to have lived alone. The Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) Phoenix Operations Centre received a call from a woman reporting the discovery and RUSA boss, Prem Balram, said Reaction Officers and Medics were dispatched to the scene and on arrival found the Phoenix SAPS in attendance. “It was established that a relative grew concerned after she failed to make telephonic contact with the victim, since Wednesday. On Saturday, she decided to proceed to the home to check on her relative who lived alone. “On arrival, she peered through the living room window and saw the woman lying face down on the floor. Her body was in a state of decomposition. According to neighbours the deceased was last seen on Tuesday evening,” said Balram. One of Govender’s neighbours, Ernest Pillay, spoke to The Phoenix Tabloid saying that they are shocked and devastated. “Grace was a wonderful person. She worked and lived alone after her parents passed away in quick succession, last year. I used to transport her parents to hospital and the clinic. When her mother passed away, it affected Grace as she was alone. Her two brothers also passed away,” Pillay said. He described Govender as a person who loved animals especially birds. “She attended church and was very pleasant. After her parents passed on, everyone worried about her. She used to go away with family at times. Grace was well-loved in our community. This is a tragedy and we will miss her dearly,” Pillay added. Democratic Liberal Congress leader, Patrick Pillay, visited the family of the deceased in Reedhaven Place, after he learnt of the discovery of the decomposed body. “The discovery of Grace’s body has sent shockwaves throughout the Phoenix community. The family is in a state of devastation. DLC activist, Ernest Pillay and myself have provided the family with moral support and expressed our condolences on behalf of my family and the DLC on the loss of a fine lady. “I want to advise the community to look out for your neighbours, especially when they are not seen on a daily basis. Always inform people on your whereabouts and remain united,” said Patrick Pillay. The DLC leader and Ernest Pillay are assisting the family of the deceased to help provide her with a peaceful send-off. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said: “Police member Constable Ntuli reported that he received a complaint of a body and proceeded to the address. The decomposed body of a woman, identified as Grace Govender, was pointed out to him. An inquest have been oped at the station.”