The World Health Organisation (WHO) has categorised snake bites and human snake conflict as an unrecognised global epidemic.Durban-based herpetologist, Cormac Price, who is researching the behaviour of urban snakes and the interaction with humans, shared his findings at the Crocworld Conservation Centre this past Saturday.It formed part of the centre’s Monthly Talk. “Every year about 7 331 people die from snake bites in sub-Saharan Africa alone. Durban finds itself in a unique position as a city with over 3.5 million citizens, and a stable population of both the world’s second longest venomous snake and a spitting cobra species – yet there have been no recorded human fatalities within the city before 2015.This makes Durban an incredible research site as a way to understand the behaviour of urban snakes, how they avoid human confrontation, and how they and the people of Durban react when they come into contact with one another,” he said. Cormac grew up in Dublin in Ireland. He has a passion for the ecology and conservation of reptiles and amphibians. He recently completed his PhD at the University of KwaZulu-Natal where he examined different aspects of the ecology of two species of freshwater terrapin – the serrated hinged terrapin (Pelusios sinuatus) and the marsh terrapin (Pelomedusa galeata) – under the supervision of Professor Colleen Downs.Cormac now works closely with expert local herpetologist, and the founder and owner of KZN Amphibian and Reptile Conservation. Nick Evans. The main focus of their work, based in Durban and surrounds, is to examine the ecology of the black mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis) and Mozambique spitting cobra (Naja mossambica).   Cormac highlighted some of the initial findings on the urban ecology of the black mamba and Mozambique spitting cobra, while stressing the significance of both species in the remaining natural habitats in Durban. “Our current research is vital to help keep snake-human conflict at an absolute minimum, and to protect the populations of both species and the habitats they reside in,” continued Cormac. “Internationally, Durban is an extremely important study site for urban reptile research and it could become a leading example to other cities with resident populations of potentially dangerous snake species.” Martin Rodrigues, Manager of Crocworld Conservation Centre, said Cormac’s talk outlined valuable snake-related information as well as some interesting facts about the snakes. “Every KwaZulu-Natal resident has either encountered one of these species, or knows someone close to them who has, yet the incident of fatalities has been non-existent the past few years. Cormac’s talk explained this highly unusual phenomenon, but also shed some light on these often-misunderstood species.”   To contact Cormac about his research or potential talks or collaborations, find him on Twitter at @C_MrPrice or email priceco@tcd.ie.