A Clarecroft pensioner, Angela Pillay, 67, tragically burned to death inside her room on Saturday morning, after a fire broke out on the upper level of the two storey residence leaving her entrapped as family and neighbours tried valiantly to rescue her from the burning room.Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said: “It is alleged by Neelan Pillay that on Saturday at about 6am he was at home with family members and his mother, Angela Pillay who was alone in the bedroom upstairs. Pillay said the family noticed smoke coming from upstairs and they realised that the house was on fire.”“The fire department personnel were summoned to the scene and a body was found on the floor with 100 percent burn wounds. An inquest is being investigated,” said Captain Naidoo.Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Pillay’s youngest daughter, Cheryl Govender, said her family is devastated and cannot come to terms with the horrific tragedy. “I left for work at 6am on Saturday morning. I spoke to my mother on Friday night and about 6.10am on Saturday morning I received a call to return home as the house was on fire. Then I found out my mother burned to death. This is a terrible nightmare. I lived with my mum all my life. Her family and home was her life. We cannot understand how this could have happened,” said a teary Govender. “My mother’s screams were heard by the children and neighbours but no one could reach her due to the massive flames,” added the emotional daughter. She said Pillay was loved and respected in the community.“My mum was a devout Christian and a pioneer member of the Upper Room Church. We are struggling to come to terms with her passing,” Govender said. KZN VIP Medics and response units were swiftly on scene upon reports of the fire. Spokesperson for KZN VIP, Gareth Naidoo, said, “Rescue attempts were made by neighbours and emergency teams to rescue the elderly woman who was trapped inside the home. Unfortunately, to no avail, the fire was too strong and no one could reach the elderly woman in time. No other injuries were reported by KZN VIP Medics and EMRS,” said Naidoo. A Phoenix Tabloid journalist visited the scene after the fatal fire.According to neighbours, they told the Phoenix Tabloid that they heard screams but were unable to reach the victim in time as the flames were overpowering. Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader, Patrick Pillay, visited the bereaved family on Sunday to offer comfort and assistance.“We earnestly sympathise with the mourning family who are in a state of shock. It’s an awful and heartbreaking experience for a family to accept that their loved one burnt to death mere steps away from them and they were helpless to get to her. The family is awaiting the conclusion of the post mortem which was undertaken and will plan the funeral accordingly, ” said Pillay. They are deeply distressed and will need help to rebuild their fire ravaged home. Anyone who wishes to assist the family can contact Pillay’s daughter, Valoshnie Manaru on 084 307 1704,” Councillor Pillay said.