Mystery surrounds the suicide last week of former murder accused, Mark Donovan Ramdass, who was acquitted by the Durban High Court of strangling his girlfriend, Ashika Singh. Provincial police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, confirmed that Ramdass was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head and no foul play was suspected. “A firearm was found in his hand and an inquest docket was opened at the Mountain Rise police station,” said Gwala.Singh’s corpse was discovered by her mom in a bedroom of their Merebank home on 2 March 2014. After Judge Johan Ploos van Amstel found Ramdass not guilty in September 2016, the state lodged an appeal in the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). The country’s second highest court dismissed the appeal. Ramdass testified that on the day of the killing, he drank excessive amounts of alcohol and smoked crack cocaine before the murder. He claimed he had no recollection of the killing. Ramdass drove Singh’s car out of her yard and abandoned it in Mahatma Gandhi Road (Point Road). The court heard that he was found walking aimlessly in uMhlanga. Judge Van Amstel found there was reasonable doubt to convict Ramdass of murder. According to the trial court s judgment, he lacked the requisite criminal capacity to appreciate what he did was wrong, when he strangled Singh. In its judgment, the SCA found that the application for leave to appeal had been procedurally irregular. However, it decided in the interests of justice to deal with the merits of the case. The appeal had rested on six issues the state had raised. But, the SCA found that none of them could be classified as questions of law that needed to be reconsidered. Two of the primary issues raised by the state dealt with criminal capacity in terms of whether the accused could tell right from wrong and could exercise self-control. The court concluded that both matters were issues of fact and there was no need for scrutiny. The SCA remarked that the onus was on the state to prove that Ramdass possessed the requisite criminal capacity. The respondent (Ramdass) bore no onus of proving that he was unable to exercise self-control. All that the respondent had to do was to adduce evidence from which an inference could be drawn that the strangulation of the deceased was involuntary, in the sense that he was unable to prevent himself from committing this act, said the court Concerning the trigger issue which the state had alluded to, the court found that the case cited was no authority for the proposition that a defence of criminal incapacity cannot succeed.The Singhs family spokesperson, Naresh Rampersad, said it was unfortunate for any person to lose their life in such a manner. The families do not hate each other. We appreciated the fact that he admitted at the trial that no one else but he could have committed the murder. We respect the courts decision. My family passes condolences to Marks family, said Rampersad.