The public is invited to attend a march organised by a group of civic-minded individuals, to protest the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizen (NRC) laws in India. The solidarity march is set to take place on Sunday, 16 February at 8.45am. The march will begin at the North Beach Amphitheatre, proceed to New Beach and head back to the North Beach Amphitheatre. The CAA is an amendment to a 1955 legislation, which fast tracks citizenship to HIndu, Sikh, Parsi, Buddhist and Christian immigrants who moved to India from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan prior to December 2014. This legislation will protect those seeking shelter in India due to their persecution in the country they fled from. The bill does not mention protecting Muslims. While it is important for these refugees to gain citizenship, India is excluding the Muslim refugees in the country who have fled persecution from neighbouring countries such as Myanmar, China and Sri Lanka. The NRC, which requires a person to prove that they or their ancestors were in their state of residence on or before 24 March 1971, will differentiate between Indian citizens and illegal immigrants. Immigrants who are identified as illegal, will be deported. According to a statement released by the co-ordinating committee of the march, ” If the NRC tool is rolled out in India, the refugees who are unable to prove their right to reside in India will also be rendered stateless and they will be targeted by the government.” Dr Faizel Sulaiman , a member of the co-ordinating committee, said, “This march is in no way anti-Hindu, anti-Indian nor is it a battle between India and Pakistan. Human rights activists worldwide are participating and joining hands to counter Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Narendra Modi’s, attempt at targeting the minorties using the discriminatory laws of CAA and NRC.” Sulaiman appealed to the public to not misconceive the mission of the campaign as Hindu against Muslim but rather a drive to highlight the injustice that minority religious communities are facing. For more information contact solidaritymarch123@gmail.com or call 084 333 3979/0829019786