The School Governing Body (SGB), parents and teachers, met at the embattled Waterloo Secondary School on Thursday afternoon (6 February), following an altercation that recently landed a Grade 9 pupil in hospital. On Wednesday (5 February), an 18-year-old pupil was arrested after he had stabbed his peer inside the school premises. The accused appeared before the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Thursday morning (6 February) and he was granted bail. The suspect is expected to make his second appearance in court on 6 March. The meeting at the school was arranged to address the issue of violence, which is allegedly caused by ongoing gangsterism in the school. The school principal who merely identified herself as Mrs Mbatha, confirmed that the meeting was held at the school. She said, “The meeting went well and tough decisions were made by all stakeholders attended. We have decided to involve the police in this issue of violence.” Mbatha said the meeting concluded that the police will have to conduct regular inspections at the school. “Each pupil entering the school premises will be properly searched and pupils found with weapons in the school will be arrested. Any pupil found to have started violence will be expelled from the school, ” added Mbatha. Ward councillor Johnson Chetty said the gist of the violence at the school was that pupils settle their neighbourhood conflicts when they rendezvous. He said, “When I was elected three years ago, I met with the relevant stakeholders of this school and was told of the gangsterism that is prevalent. I personally saw weapons that were confiscated by the deputy principal which also included knives.” Chetty said he impressed upon the police to conduct regular inspections. A drug awareness campaign was also conducted at the school. He added, “My ward committee members were also despatched to assist in curbing criminality by conducting inspections. I further engaged with a private security company (Reaction Unit SA) to collaborate with these stakeholders.” Chetty expressed disappointment that a pupil was stabbed at the school, after he had arranged for bush-cutting around the perimeter of the school. He stated that a school should be a sanctuary where pupils should feel safe. ” National government need to outlay a significant budget to protect our vulnerable pupils especially in volatile township areas. Waterloo is an impoverished community that is plagued by socio-.economic challenges,” said Chetty. Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson, said the Verulam police are investigating a case of assault with the purpose to inflict grievous bodily harm. Kwazi Mthethwa, spokesperson of the provincial Education Department, condemned the violence in the school, saying pupils should focus more on their studies than fighting. “We appeal to the parents of the pupils to assist in the fight against violence at schools. The issue of bullying in our schools is a huge problem. The root cause of this problem does not start at the school but can be traced back home,” said Mthethwa.