KZN was on alert recently after two suspected coronavirus cases were reported on social media platforms. However, the KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said that the Department can confidently state there are no confirmed cases. The MEC has criticized the ” false, irresponsible, and sensationalist reporting by certain news websites which created an untruthful and misleading impression about the coronavirus,”  Simelane-Zulu said that there were no laboratory confirmation of the two suspected coronavirus cases showing signs of infection and although the two cases mentioned in media displayed similar symptoms to that of the coronavirus, neither of the patients presented with symptoms after the 14 day incubation period for the virus to be confirmed. Simelane-Zulu added that the Department can confidently state that there are no confirmed cases and although the two cases were not confirmed, the Department is still monitoring the patient’s treatment closely in compliance with the National Department of Health’s protocols. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Dr Mergan Naidoo of the University of KwaZulu-Natal Virology Department, said that the false alarms reported in the media create a sense of fear in the public. “People who exhibit minor symptoms of the virus, such as a cold, are often tagged as potentially being infected with the virus. This is definitely not good especially if the person has not been in contact with anyone from Wuhan. It’s just mass hysteria,” said Dr Naidoo. Dr Naidoo also believes that the Department of Health does have the accurate precautionary measures in place as well as a strategy in the case of infection being detected. Meanwhile, the Department has appealed to the media, and community of KwaZulu-Natal to remain calm and avoid being misled by false and sensational statements which are peddled on social media platforms. ” Members of the public will be duly notified of any new developments by the National Department of Health, ” said Simelane-Zulu.