Minorities of South Africa (MOSA) has objected to former DA Leader, Mmusi Maimane’s formation of his new political party – Movement for One South Africa, using the same acronym MOSA. Maimane was reported to have announced the development of his new party whilst speaking on the sidelines of an event held by German political party foundation, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, last week. The National Chairperson of Minorities of South Africa, Ronnie Veeran stated that the Party was against this and has written to the Commissioner of the Independent Electoral Commission, objecting to the proposed registration of Maimane’s political party. “The Minorities of South Africa (MOSA) was registered as a political party with the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) in all nine provinces, a few months before the 2016 local government elections. This acronym has been used in all correspondence to and from the IEC as well as by the media. Furthermore, this would potentially confuse the voters as the new party’s  abbreviation resembles that of our Party which since its formation has been referred to as MOSA by the general public,” said Veeran. Veeran added that the IEC has since acknowledged receipt of the Party’s objection, stating, “According to the IEC, the registration of another party with the same acronym does not substantially comply with the provisions of Section 15 of the Electoral Commission Act 1996 (Act NO. 51 of 1996) and the Regulations for the Registration of Political Parties. Spokesperson and Chief Communication Officer, Electoral Commission, Kate Bapela said, “The Electoral Commission has received a letter from Minorities of South Africa (MOSA) objecting to  Mmusi Maimane’s intention to register a party Movement for One South Africa (MOSA), on the basis of the acronym, MOSA. At the moment, there is no objection for the IEC to consider because we have not received any application to register a party from Mr Maimane.” We were unable to get a comment from Musi Maimane of Movement for One South Africa, at the time of going to print.