Chaos has erupted in Ladysmith and surrounding areas as roads leading into Ladysmith are closed off, this morning (Thursday, 27 February). Reports of community members burning tyres and packing rocks have resulted in Harrismith Road, Peace Town, Protea Drive, R103 Madiba Drive and Steadville , Helpmekaar road, Limit Hill and parts of the N11 being closed. Residents have been warned to stay at home and schools have closed their doors as threats of violence have been made. The Square Mall, Murchison Mall and the Oval have closed off their malls and security guards have been posted at locked gates, refusing to allow people in, which includes business tenants. It is reported that a community hall was damaged in the Peacetown area, as well as infrastructures in and around the Acaciavale area, Peacetown and Steadville. The discharge of firearms and stone throwing, was reported near the Pieters/Colenso Road, as well as in the Mooi River area. The complete shut down of Ladysmith comes after a march by Umbubano Lothula and the Klipriver Taxi Association yesterday, (Wednesday, 27 February) where over 200 taxi operators and about 100 people marched along Murchison street. This is the third call this month, for a total shut down in Ladysmith, as residents voice their dissatisfaction with service delivery. According to media reports Umbubano Lothula and the Klipriver Taxi Association will continue with protests, until the Mayor of Alfred Duma Municipality, Vincent Madlala, steps down. The Ladysmith Herald spoke to a nurse that lives in Peacetown, who said that she can not go home this morning and will have to sleep in her vehicle. “I have just knocked off night shift and can’t return home,” said the off-duty nurse, who had picked a spot at a local garage to spend her day at. “I guess, I will be sleeping here today,” said the woman. During the protests, last night (27 February), a truck driver, was shot in the arm, and his truck taken by protestors on Pieters Road. The truck driver managed to get to the Colenso police station. In another incident police were called after calls of help had come from two vehicles that had been stuck in the protests along the Pieters Road. The unharmed family was safely removed. Councillor Sharon Buys said: “If one absolutely has to drive somewhere out of town, please call Public Safety for an accurate update. The situation is rambunctious with unreasonable individuals causing chaos from time to time but the authorities are addressing it to the best of their ability. Whilst we all wish to keep each other safe with warnings, it often incites fear and anxiety. Buys advised residents that should they come upon a blocked road, they should turn around, vacate the area and report it immediately to Public Safety. Buys said: “Everyone is encouraged to go to work as a ‘no work/no pay’ policy applies. Two thirds of the staff at my place of employment have arrived as well as clients, both local and rural. The best way to proceed is to carry on as normal, unless specifically warned against certain areas.” Buys urged residents, when posting on the media platforms about the protests, to please post  original messages of one’s own experience. “Reposts generally have no time stamp and as the situation is fluid, information needs to be current and factual.” said Buys.