Travellers are alerted to expect peak traffic conditions from Friday, 7 to Sunday, 9 February along sections of the N3 route due to the annual international open water swim event, the Midmar Mile taking place at the Midmar Dam near Howick from 8 – 9 February. N3 Toll Concession (N3TC), the company managing the N3 Toll Route between Cedara in KwaZulu-Natal and Heidelberg in Gauteng said to accommodate the influx of travellers, no construction work will be taking place between Cedara and Tweedie this weekend. However traffic congestion and delays may be experienced at peak times. The Midmar Mile is one of the major open-water swimming event in the world. ” The N3TC together with the Midlands community in KwaZulu-Natal are looking forward to welcome swimmers and their supporters to this event. N3TC is a proud partner of this event. As safety is always on top of the mind, we have joined the event organisers to provide lifeguard services and aquatic safety devices to swimmers,” said N3TC’s commercial manager, Con Roux. Roux said that they are doing their best to help keep swimmers safe in the water but the first aim is always to ensure safety on the road. ” Please keep in mind that a great event only ends once you have arrived safely back home,” added Roux. A strategically important road such as the N3 Toll Route requires comprehensive incident management systems to ensure as little disruption as possible to the thousands of travellers who use the road daily. Every emergency requires a coordinated response to minimise safety risks and to keep traffic flowing. N3TC partners with all emergency services (including law and traffic enforcement teams, paramedics and ambulance services, fire brigades, crash recovery services, etc) to keep the route safe. The company operates a central route control centre, based at Harrismith to manage all incidents and provide emergency assistance to road users in distress. The Route Control Centre (RCC) is the nerve centre of the N3 Toll Route. “If anything happens on the route, the RCC knows about it and will determine the response and corrective actions that may be required. This is a vitally important part of our operations and a key early-warning system,” explained Roux. “Together with its 24-hour emergency helpline, N3TC provides around the clock route patrol services to respond to emergencies. Our road incident management teams are highly-skilled and experienced. They all have first-aid and fire-fighting training, advanced driving skills and good mechanical knowledge. They also know how to handle hazardous and highly volatile substances, and understand the practicalities and logistics of keeping a road safe for its users,” said Roux. Travellers on the N3 Toll Route are encouraged to obtain advance traffic information or report any problems by contacting the 24-hour helpline on 0800 63 4357 or follow N3TC on Twitter: @N3Route.