Islamic Relief South Africa presents One Night in Al Aqsa, a fascinating documentary about the Al Aqsa compound in Jerusalem.Directed by Abrar Hussain, One Night in Al Aqsa tells the story about Al Aqsa in a way that has never been seen before. Set against the backdrop of Lailatul Qadr (the Night of Power), One Night in Al Aqsa takes the viewer on a journey spanning centuries of architecture, history and spiritual magnificence in the third holiest site of the Islamic faith. This documentary provides detailed insights of Masjidul Aqsa from the Caliphate of the Sahaba Umar (RA) to the restoration of Al Aqsa by Salahaddin ibn Ayyub and finally the current Waqf that administers the building.The main inspiration of this film is to reinvigorate the love in people’s hearts for Masjidul Aqsa and to allow the viewer an insight of the inner workings of Masjidul Aqsa on a day-to-day basis, especially on the night of Qadr, one of the most spiritually significant nights in the Islamic faith. The viewer can learn why this site is so important to billions of people of the Abrahamic faiths through the experiences and accounts of the people who live, work and worship there. Islamic Relief South Africa is hosting One Night in Al Aqsa to raise funds for Islamic Relief projects in Gaza. Gaza, known as the largest open air prison in the world, hosts millions of Palestinians with limited access to safe drinking water, emergency medical aid and food. ‘These projects are in dire need of support from our donors and this screening gives us an opportunity to bring awareness to our community’ said Yusuf Mohamed, CEO of Islamic Relief South Africa. Book your tickets for One Night in Al Aqsa now showing on Friday, 28th February at the NMJ Hall and Saturday, 29th February at the Cine Centre Liberty Midlands Malls. Tickets are R150 and available on Computicket or at the Islamic Relief Durban office – 534 Peter Mokaba Ridge Overport. Contact Islamic Relief SA offices on 031 208 2838 or Whatsapp 062 738 7780.