Ladysmith is held hostage for the third day running as businesses and schools closed their doors with residents remaining indoors, as violent protests were reported again this morning, Friday 28 February. This weeks protests began on Wednesday and has since  escalated. The South African Police Service (SAPS), members of Public Order Policing (POP), Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) and Public Safety officials stormed various locations, where protesters had blocked off main roads leading in and out of Ladysmith, yesterday afternoon as well as this morning. Helpmekaar/Limit Hill intersection was the first to be affected in the police clean up. RTI swooped on taxis that had no driversand impounded the vehicles. While police moved up along N11, towards Driefontein, protesters started closing up the intersection again, not adhering to the police warnings. At Driefontein N11 turn off,  temperatures flared between the taxi owners and police, with arrests being made. In the crowds, a British foreigner told police that one of the taxi  owners had threatened him with a firearm. Police moved in quickly to arrest the man and confiscated the firearm. The man was led away by police and was later charged. The foreigner had taken fright and turned to run back to safety but accidentally ran into the Ladysmith Herald journalist, causing her to fall and injure herself. The foreigner was taken to safety and the Journalist was taken to hospital where she is recovering. Protesters ignored the police, as they continued closing off roads. Most businesses have lost days of work due to ongoing protests. Schools have planned to re-open on Monday however there is no indication when the protests or the siege on Ladysmith will end. This is the third call this month, for a total shut down in Ladysmith, as residents voice their dissatisfaction with service delivery, as well as calling for the mayor of Alfred Duma Municipality, Vincent Madlala, to step down. Warnings have been issued that the violence will continue. Reports of intimation have been reported, with social media platforms warning people to stay away from the effected area’s.