A one-month-old baby girl will never know her father while a wife of three months has been plunged into widowhood after the body of a 23-year-old husband and father, Ageshan Mickyle Chinsamy, was found with injuries along a river bank near Rydalvale Sports Ground in Unit 9, on Sunday.Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Chinsamy’s shocked and grief-stricken brother, Dylan, 17, said his family is devastated by his elder brother’s death which they were initially led to believe was a murder.Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) responded to the scene of the murder and RUSA boss, Prem Balram, said that at approximately 4.22pm on Sunday, a member of Reaction Unit South Africa was on patrol in the area when he was flagged down by a passerby who made the discovery. Medics were called to the scene and on arrival found the Indian male in a bush along the riverbank.“The male was found in seated position with his legs crossed. He sustained a stab wound to his chest and arm. He also sustained a laceration to his face. He showed no signs of life and was declared deceased at the scene,” Balram said.“We cannot believe that this has happened. My parents are heartbroken as well as my brother’s wife. No one expected such a horrible thing to happen to Mickyle. He was not a fighter or a violent person. It is terrible that we have to plan and say goodbye to my brother after such a tragic death,” said Dylan. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said that Phoenix SAPS member, Warrant Officer Govender received a complaint of a body in the stream below the grounds.“On his arrival, he interviewed the witness, a sex worker from the area, who stated that at about 3.30pm, when she went down the bank of the stream to relieve herself, she found an unknown Indian male lying there. She immediately asked some males to call the police. The deceased was positively identified as Mickyle Chinsamy, 23, who had allegedly left home at 9pm on 8 February, stating that he was going to the bar near his home and had not returned. The family conducted a search and was at the police station reporting him missing when it was established that the description of the missing person fits the deceased,” said Cpt Naidoo. According to Naidoo, the deceased sustained a chop wound to the right side of his head and bruising to his neck. The deceased’s wallet and Samsung cellphone are missing. It would appear that the deceased was possibly engaged in sexual activity as his pants was opened when he was found. The motive at this stage appears to be robbery. No arrests have been made as yet. An inquest is under investigation as it is alleged that the deceased fell and sustained injuries,” Cpt Naidoo added.“We are struggling as a family to understand what happened to my brother. We are mourning the loss of our loved one currently and we wait on police to update us with the facts,” said Dylan. Mickyle was laid to rest today, Tuesday, 11 February.