Nigerian born Anthony Felix who’s well known as ‘Tkinzy’, has returned to the entertainment industry with a bang. After a two year break, Tkinzy who is an ex Soul Candi and Gallo Music Records artist recently announced his return and has started making headlines across African media platforms for establishing his own record company, Kinging Music Records.  Tkinzy  will also be releasing his own music under the record.  He is signed to one of South Africa’s biggest management and artistic agencies, World Arts Agency and has taken on a role to feature in a new film, to be directed by Nigerian filmmaker and writer, Onyeka Nwelue. Tkinzy spoke with Tabloid Newspapers about his return and plans for the future.Tabloid Newspapers (TN): In a nutshell, who is Anthony?Anthony Felix (AF) :  Anthony is a young singer/actor working on his craft and trying to show the world what he can offer.  TN: You go by a nickname of Tkinzy, how did it come about?AF: The name Tkinzy was given to me by a friend back in high school, he said I am a king in everything I do, that I try to be my best in my craft. Before I knew it, people started calling me that.TN: Who are you inspired by in the industry?AF: Well as a kid, I have been inspired by a lot of great singers. Mostly, Lucky Dube, Psquare, Usher Raymond and Michael Jackson.TN: Is there a hidden meaning in any of your music?AF: No, my music is very self explanatory. I sing about love, hustle, nature and beauty.TN: Do you collaborate with others? How do you pick people you work with?AF: Well when it comes to collaborations, I always try to work with talented artists like myself, so, we could deliver something amazing to the listening fans. This  year, I will be working on a few collaborations, fans must watch the space they will be blown away.TN: You took a break for two years, why?AF: I took a break because I wanted to focus on my family business. I was told by my family that I need to do that as am the only child of my parents. And they are both late, so, I needed to take the break to manage the business for a while and then get the right people to look after the business so I can focus on my music.TN: You are from Nigeria, how has it been for you here in SA?AF: Yes I am from Nigeria but I literally grew up here in South Africa. I came here when I was 15-years-old. So, I have adapted so well and I’m used to being here and how things work.TN: What’s a normal day like for you?AF: Working on songs. I am always trying to compose something on a daily basis. I save them on my voice note and start to write gradually. Without writing, there is no normal day.TN: If you didn’t become a musician, what would you be doing right now?AF: Well if I didn’t become a musician, probably, I would be focusing on my family real estate business.TN: What is your favourite part about this line of work? Your least favourite? Why?AF: Being an artist. I am happy with what I am  doing, simply because I love doing singing. I guess I took over from my mother, it’s in the blood. My mother was a great singer.  What I don’t really like much about being an artist is that  you have to do a lot of adjustments in life. You don’t live a normal life. The way you handle and carry yourself changes as you are always in front of people. There is simply no private life.TN: Tell me about one of your best performance ?AF: My favourite performance? I don’t have any. I give my best when I am on stage. The energy is always real.TN: What advice would give to someone wanting to follow in your footsteps?AF: Give it your all. Be original. Don’t try to copy any artist.  Even if it takes time, surely you will be seen and loved by people.