Classes at the New West Secondary School in Newlands West were interrupted on Wednesday, 5 February, by an angry mob of parents protesting and demanding for the school principal to remove a pupil that was supposed to be dismissed from the school last year. The angry parents are threatening to shutdown the school if their demands are not met. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, the spokesperson of the Concerned Parents Ad Hoc Committee, Pravesh Naipal, said that the pupil was currently on trial for a car hijacking case. Naipal said that the committee was angry because the same pupil was allegedly found on the school premises last week, smoking dagga with six of his friends. “Our mission is to remove this pupil out of the school premises because he was transferred to another school but his parents forcefully sent him back to his previous class. All we are asking for, is the principal together with the Department of Education to remove this pupil out of the school. However, if our demands are denied or not met with adequately, they will leave us with no choice but to close down the school,” he said. According to the School Governing Body Chairperson (SGB), Viresh Bhana, the pupil is not registered in the school as he was transferred last year. “When the matter was addressed last year, the school principal and the SGB opted to transfer the pupil with immediate effect, however, this year his parents decided to send him back to the same class he was in the previous year. According to our books, technically the pupil has been transferred out of the school, however after two weeks of the new year, the parents brought the pupil back and placed him into the classroom violently,” he said. Bhana said the parents of the accused pupil treated the school, the class teacher and the principal with disrespect. A case was opened against the parents and the department was informed about the incident. KZN Department of Education spokesperson, Kwazi Mthethwa, said that according to the department rules, no school will be closed without the departments permission. “We are aware of the situation but no school will be shutdown by anyone. It is the constitutional right of the pupil to be in class until further investigations. If the parents are found guilty of any wrong doing or anything to jeopardise the right of the pupil to learn, then the department is forced to involve the law enforcement,” he said.