Masters in Art, student Coral Bijoux has honoured the University of KwaZulu-Natal Westville campus by completing a body of art installation in the fields of arts and education. With more than 27 years of experience, Bijoux works independently as an artist and curator as well as an implementer and manager of creative projects. Explaining her latest work, Dreams as Revolution which is now open for public viewing at the university, Bijoux said: “The work is a case study of interdisciplinary and auto-ethnographic praxis-led work where the life sciences, arts, music, a daily ‘performance’ ritual by the artist, art making, creative writing took place at the university in its location in a semi-discarded section of the plant nursery. Late into the project, the music department engaged the ‘dreams work’ in a piece titled, The Door of No Return that considered the necessity for dreaming as ‘a freedom’ The re-visioning has taken shape amidst the questioning.” Bijoux said that she felt satisfaction as she watched participants hailing from outside and within the university through formal and informal arrangements. ‘‘This is a space without doors, no roof or windows, opened to the elements and open to engagement, interference and/or appreciation,” added Bijoux, whose work evolved after months of braving the elements, student strikes and a pandemic lockdown. “It was important for my children, friends, family, staff members and students that witnessed this ‘crazy’ work being developed to see that it is possible to transform a self. That it is possible to have a dream, be it to study under the direst conditions, or to ‘one day get a job of your dreams, or to create a dream project. It is possible no matter what the circumstances are and what the context is,” said Bijoux. UKZN released a statement explaining in awe of the art work produced by their student, they said: “The work evolved in a dream-like state produced mostly from industrial and household discarded single use plastic.
The space echoed the lives of animals, insects, plants and humans. It became a place of fantasy and growth, degeneration and re-growth. It was within this context that the dreams evolved: questioning, answering, recording, questioning again, observing, noting, drawing, sculpting, and sharing.” Art critic and academic, Dr Ashraf Jamal added: “Bijoux has spent just shy of a year immersed in an art installation project as evolutionary as it aspires to be revolutionary, or better, revolutionary, because what Bijoux strives to reveal, through all the senses, is our relationship to the earth, our native land which we have squandered and abused.” The Dreams as Revolution installation can be viewed after a booking is made with the artist (to ensure the requisite permits are granted). The art book will be available soon and the website https://coral4art.co.za allows you to peek into the work in progress.