Ethekwini District Trio Task Team and Pinetown OCC members received information about a suspicious white VW Polo sedan driving around in Durban.Shortly thereafter, the vehicle was stopped by police in Pinetown. Five males and their vehicle were searched and illegal firearms were recovered on Wednesday, 29 July. Ethekwini District SAPS communications officer, Carmen Rhynes said that upon searching the vehicleand the suspects they found two pistols, namely; one Norinco and one CZ. “The members also found two magazines and 23 live rounds of ammunition. A plastic shopping bag with R1076.20 cash in loose notes and coins and a gold watch were in their possession. A police uniform including a hat and belt with police insignia were also found in the vehicle. While investigating further, it was established that the vehicle had a bullet hole on the rear door. When they opened the boot of the car, hub caps, registration number plates and a beanie with dreadlocks were found,” said Rhynes. She said that the five suspects between the ages of 33 and 44 were immediately arrested. “It was established that one suspect had a conviction for robbery and the two other suspects had cases of robbery pending in KwaMashu and Pietermaritzberg,” Rhynes said. She said that it was further discovered that the men were involved in a business robbery that took place on the same day in Mayville where a foreigner was robbed. “Two cellphones belonging to the victimwere recovered. The victim was contacted by police, just as he was on his way to Mayville SAPS to open a case. He was shocked and pleased to hear an arrest had been made and his phones recovered. All five suspects are expected to appear in court on Friday, 31 July. Information linking the suspects to crime in other surrounding policing areas in and around Durban will be gathered to ensure these criminals face all the cases they are found to be involved in.” General Vukani Mgobhozi, Ethekwini District Commissioner said: “This is outstanding arrests and recovery of illegal firearms made by SAPS. Their quick team work and response to information removed five dangerous habitual robbers from our streets.” Reward offered following theft of state vehicles 