“Give me the gold and the money. Don’t make me a stupid.”
These were the words of an armed house robber who together with two gun-wielding accomplices held up a Woodview family in the early hours of Saturday morning and fled with cash, jewellery and a houseful of items in the victim’s vehicle after shooting a 63-year-old occupant. The traumatised homeowner and active Community Police Forum member, who wished to remain anonymous spoke to the Phoenix Tabloid and said: “It was a nightmare which I would never wish on my worst enemy. I was frozen with fear and watched the horrific and unspeakable actions unfold before me as my dad bled profusely and the robbers terrorised us and our pets during the 30 minute ordeal.” She said that the alarm triggered at around 2.30am on Saturday morning. “My security company, KZN VIP, contacted me immediately. Whilst on the phone with them, I awakened from bed and peeked into the dining room. I saw a figure who I assumed was my dad investigating the cause of the alarm and I cancelled the response coming out with KZN VIP. I said everything was okay. “Thereafter, our terror unfolded. My dad walks out of his room and says, “Hey there is someone there.” The robbers rushed towards and fired a shot. I rushed into my room and collapsed on my bed. I did not know my dad was struck by a bullet but I heard him plead with the robbers to not kill us,” said the emotional homeowner. “The gunmen dragged my dad into my room. They were heartless. They kicked and assaulted him as he covered his face. All I saw was blood oozing profusely down his face. One suspect kept prodding at me and threatening me to be quiet or we will be killed.
My dog, a Maltese poodle, rushed to my dad’s aid. The robbers were violent and kicked my dog repeatedly after he tried to attack them as they assaulted my dad. The trio were threatening and demanded cash, jewellery, and gold. I pointed out the safe which they broke and removed cash and jewellery. Afterwards, we noticed they even broke into the ceiling to check for valuables,” added the distressed resident. She said: “One suspect remained with dad and I while the two other suspects ransacked the house. They stuffed everything they grabbed into backpacks and bags and grabbed the keys from every room including our vehicle keys. They fled in my dad’s vehicle. They had entered by cutting the burglar bars and forcing open a window which triggered the alarm. They heard me cancel KZN VIP response and then struck. “The suspects were lingering in the area from earlier on. They were jumping into yards looking for targets. They activated my neighbour’s beams but he didn’t see any suspects. Finally, after trying a few houses, they pounced on our home.” “Immediately, after the robbers fled, my dad activated our panic alarm. I also called my neighbour and informed police. Within minutes, we had everyone at our aid from police to neighbours, CPF members and security personnel. KZN VIP placed a round the clock guard at my house since the terrible incident and police worked swiftly to pick up prints and check for other clues. “I urge community members to please call for response to conduct a check at your premises when your alarms activates. Investigate the reason behind barking dogs by calling your security service provider or the police. These criminals are brazen; they attacked us, shot my dad, assaulted my pets and ripped the earrings off my ears. They hang around and scout the area looking for unsuspecting victims. For peace of mind, do not take it for granted, that all is well or assume that a family member is checking around or could have activated the alarm,” the Woodview resident said. Phoenix police spokesperson, Captain Louise Naidoo, said: “It is alleged that the family members were asleep when they were rudely awakened by the intruders there were three males with firearms. The complainant and her elderly father went to the lounge to investigate the noises and one round was fired at their direction injuring the father on his temple and ear. He is in a stable condition. The suspects ransacked the entire house and fled with the victim’s vehicle, jewellery, cellphones, laptops and cash. A case of house robbery is under investigation and no arrests have yet been made.” KZN VIP director, Glen Naidoo, said: “KZN VIP empathises with this family in the wake of their heinous ordeal. We are trying our best to assist with finding the victim’s vehicle while ensuring that their residence is guarded until the necessary repairs are sorted. “We urge residents to remain alert and beef up security at your premises. These are early warning deterrents to help you keep safe in the face of