The health minister, Zweli Mkhize has reduced the recommended isolation period for positive Covid-19 patients from 14 to 10 days. In a statement released on Friday, 17 July, the minister said that this recommendation is based on evidence that most patients with a mild Covid-19 infection continue to shed the virus from their upper airways for approximately seven to twelve days. “The presence of detectable virus when testing does not necessarily imply infectiousness. It has been proven that in mild cases, virus cultures are generally only positive for eight to nine days after symptom onset.” said Mkhize. He said that the duration of infectiousness in patients with severe disease (i.e requiring admission) is less well established. In general, patients with severe disease may continue to shed virus at higher levels for longer periods than patients with mild disease. It is recommended that such patients be de-isolated 10 days after clinical stability has been achieved, rather than 10 days after symptom onset. For example, if a patient was admitted and placed on oxygen, it is advised that when the oxygen supplementation is discontinued, the patient must remain in isolation for another 10 days. This continued isolation provides clinical comfort that the patient is no longer infectious. Mkhize said that asymptomatic patients are a challenge, since it is not possible to estimate where in the course of viral shedding they are at the time point at which they test positive. He advised that an asymptomatic patient must remain in isolation for a period of 10 days following the date of their positive results. The guidelines have been provided by the World Health organization (WHO) and the Ministerial Advisory Committee has also submitted an advisory in this regard. Their advisory proposed that the isolation period should be reduced to 8 days. “After considering this advice and the guidelines by the WHO, the National Coronavirus Command Council, on recommendation by Health, resolved to adopt the WHO guidelines,” said Mkhize.