The family of renowned South African sports physician, Dr Mahomed ‘Shorty’ Moolla (71) is struggling to come to terms with his sudden passing from a heart attack at his Reservoir Hills residence, on Monday morning. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, Dr Moolla’s son, Yusuf, said his dad was an icon in the medical fraternity and the flood of tributes and messages of condolences from peers and professionals across the globe bore testament to that. Dr Moolla has been described as a humble, professional and caring person. He travelled the globe during his career and impacted many lives with condolences streaming in from Reunion, Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria and further abroad. “My dad worked extensively abroad and locally. He embarked on a career in sports medicine when it was relatively unknown. For about 16 years, my father practised as a general practitioner after graduating as a medical doctor from the National University of Ireland. He thereafter pursued a career in sports medicine which he said changed his life forever as it opened up a whole new world between medicine and sport,” said Yusuf. Moolla’s celebrated career in the South African sporting arena commenced in 1994 when he was appointed as the team doctor for the South African team at the Commonwealth Games in Canada. In his career highlight moment, he was appointed as the chief medical officer for the SA Olympic team for the 1996 Olympic Games held in Atlanta in the United States of America. Moolla’s excitement at his appointment was further stepped up when he met former president Nelson Mandela at the Olympic Games. He also served as the chief medical doctor at the African Cup of Nations (Afcon) for all Durban-based games in 1996. Moolla was integrally involved in the Confederation of African Football (CAF) where he commenced his appointment as a sports medicine instructor in 1997 and served on the gender verification portfolio for CAF. In October 2012, Moolla was selected as part of a 43-member CAF delegation to the African Women’s Championship in Equatorial Guinea. Yusuf said: “While serving the sporting fraternity in SA, my father still maintained a private sports physician’s practise at St Augustine’s Hospital which he opened in 1997 until his sudden passing. He worked with some of the world’s leading athletes, including Penny Heyns, Samuel Eto’o and Michael Essien. My father had close ties with the International Olympic committee member, Sam Ramsamy and Danny Jordaan, president of the South African Football Association.” “My father had a passion for medicine and sports. Fortunately, he was able to combine both his loves. My father played football at university levels in Dublin and he completed 11 Comrades marathons while he treated and prepared countless of runners up until his passing,” said Yusuf. “This sudden passing of my father leaves a void in our lives. He was an iconic man who leaves behind an indelible legacy for us, his family. We are grateful to have spent precious time with my father during the lockdown. He made us well aware of the dangers of COVID-19 and ensured that we took all the precautions to protect ourselves. Dad lived for us and he was proud of his family,” Yusuf added. Dr Moolla received countless accolades during his impressive career including the life membership award from the South African Sports Medicine Association (SASMA) in 2001 and the Presidential Award for Service to Sport in 2014. The fellowship from the International Federation of Sports Medicine (FFIMS) in 2014, ranks among his honours together with awards from the American College of Sports Medicine (FACSM) in 2002 and from the Faculty of Sports and Exercise Medicine, Royal College of Physicians in Ireland and Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (FFSEM) in 2003. Dr Moolla was buried at Browns Avenue Cemetery on Monday and he is mourned by his wife Zarina, daughter Fatima, and sons Yusuf, Riaz and Aadil together with his six grandsons between the ages of 3 and 10, whom he doted on. 