Newlands Community Policing Forum (CPF) said that they are grateful for the recent intervention to curb the escalating crime rate in the area. This comes after LPR cameras were installed recently in the community by Fidelity ADT as part of its launch to install CCTV and LPR cameras throughout Durban, strategically at busy road intersections with high traffic volumes as a means to ensure that they are able to maximise the opportunity to flag any suspicious vehicles. Newlands CPF chairperson, Thomas Jafta said that the CPF and SAPS were not informed about the installation of the cameras. Jafta said a meeting was held on Wednesday, 22 July and when the issue of the camera’s was raised, the SAPS representative intimated that the cameras were erected by the Road Traffic inspectorate (RTi) without consulting the CPF, the station commander or the CPF’s sub-structures. “Our sub-structures have been planning for sometime to get these resources strategically in Newlands as they could be linked to our crime fighting projects,” said Jafta.He said that they are pleased with the installation, however, feel that there was a lack of collaboration on such important and vital tools to curb crime. “At least, the station commissioner should have been informed. We will follow up with the RTi to brief us on how we can work with them in future,” said Jafta. Fidelity ADT’s KZN district manager Vaughan Pillay said that the security company has seen a great success with the LPR cameras across the country and stolen vehicles being recovered as well as armed response being deployed as soon as the alert is activated in their control room. Commenting on whether the CPF was contacted before the installation, Pillay said that Fidelity ADT dealt with the sub-sector forums in the Newlands West area including the Castlehill CPF and Hillgrove CPF. He said that the installation of cameras was independently done by the security company and not RTi. “Both Newlands East and West are experiencing a lot of crime in general and the current cameras were installed in Newlands East, Hillgrove and Castlehill specifically. We are working with different areas within the Newlands East and West communities to get more of these cameras installed,” Pillay said.