Ladysmith residents and water consumers have been affected by disruptions in water supply and sanitation services after Uthukela Municipality employees downed tools. The strike is into its second week with two labor unions, the South African Municipal Workers Union (SAMWU) and the Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (IMATU) saying that employees will not resume work until management resolve their grievances. Residents from Limit Hill, Acaciavale, Smartiesville, Colenso, Camp Street and Hospital Park have been without water for more than a week. They have also complained that the delays in repairing their burst pipes have flooded their yards and streets. Camp Street residents, have called in the services of a former municipal plumber to have their pipes privately fixed. Residents are calling for a petition to be signed. Ladysmith Herald offices have been inundated with calls from residents complaining about the water woes. “How are we supposed to prepare for Eid,?” asked one caller. Another caller said “What we don’t understand is that the leaders of our country have said that basic needs such as water will not be cut due to Covid-19, without water how are we supposed to wash and clean our homes as a precaution against the coronavirus?” Residents have said that various complaints made to Uthukela Municipality have fallen on deaf ears, with the municipality having only a skeleton staff to run the entire district, which includes Bergville, Estcourt and Indaka area. “The municipality is thus expecting disturbances to normal water supply and sanitation services in most parts of the district,” said Jabulani Mkhonza, communications manager Uthukela Municipality. Workers downed tools since last Tuesday complaining about lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) and workwear amongst other things. The municipality said that immediate temporary measures have been put in place to ensure that water production processes and supply resumes earliest while it attempts to resolve the labour impasse with the striking workers. The municipality confirmed to Ladysmith Herald that there is going to be another meeting between the management and union representatives. The municipality explained that they fully understand that the unfortunate strike is taking place during the worst period where the coronavirus is on a surge. “We call upon all residents to use water sparingly and bear with us as we are trying our utmost to manage the situation, ” said the municipality spokesperson.