have been on our minds for months now that the Covid-19 pandemic has changed our world and the way we see the world. Are you stressed right now and feeling a little anxious at the same time? Well, I can tell you that you are not alone, we are all feeling anxious about the pandemic and how it is unfolding in South Africa. Here are a few ways that you can implement today to help you take charge of your mind. As often that I have spoken about this, it is only during this time of lockdown that I have really been able to reflect on this ‘control’ aspect. I have began focusing on my own safety and sanity and thereby controlling what I can. Therefore, if you focus on all those aspects that you can control (yes you
can control your safety by following the protocols stipulated by the World Health Organisation) then you will feel more at ease. Should you sit all day pondering over what can happen and how it will happen, watching news and being completely consumed in all that is happening around it, you will easily feel despondent. Hence, control your thoughts by focusing on what you have within your reach. As human beings we look forward to our close relationships and the Covid-19 pandemic has pulled us away from physically associating with our loved ones. Technology and virtual communication has to be implemented in order to stay in touch, that is okay. Rather have some means of communication than nothing at all. To put this in perspective, I often recall the pandemics through history and wonder how society survived without any technological connection. This will help you value the present luxuries that we have. Use these methods to keep in touch, have chit-chats via Zoom or even online coffee dates with buddies. Positivity is key Keeping positive right now maybe more difficult than ever before. We will also have some days where we are more hopeful than others so days that are down is
okay. Being mindful of your thoughts are important. As soon as you feel that your thoughts are entering a pessimistic space, then consciously breathe and bring those thoughts back to the present moment and keep a positive outlook. Always think about all the good things in your life, all that you can be grateful for and all the wonderful opportunities that will still present itself in future. This is unprecedented times, we have never experienced such a pandemic before, therefore our reaction to this is also new. Keep in mind that we are all faced with these challenges and just through your own responsibility by staying home, maintaining social distance, wearing a mask and proper hand-washing you can be safe and protect your loved ones also. We are all duty-bound to do the right thing. Play your part and keep safe. About the columnist:
Krsangi Radhe is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching. She is a certified NLP practitioner, time-line therapist, life coach, author and teacher in the public sector. She helps women let go of their limiting beliefs and live a life of happiness and abundance.