Hundreds of employees and employers from the Tourism, Hospitality and Associated Sector gathered along the R74 to form a human chain along the Winterton to Bergville Road. Demonstrators had joined in a nationwide protest calling on the government to open the tourism sector, on Wednesday, 22 July. “We are not here to make trouble, we are just here to fight for our right to live,” said members from the tourism and hospitality sector in the Uthukela District. With posters in hand, demonstrators peacefully made their way to the Okhahlamba Municipal building in Bergville to hand over a memorandum to the mayor. Those that were not allowed inside the premises stood outside. The tourism and hospitality sector has been severely impacted by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Tourism industries within the Drakensberg valley have been hard hit due to the strict lockdown regulations, causing many people to be laid off work. Speaking to the Ladysmith Herald, demonstrators said that their families are going hungry, because they are the only bread winners at home. They spoke about the suffering they had endured since the lock down. “The closure of tourism is killing our beautiful destination,” they said. Thys Janse van Rensburg who has been in hospitality tourism for almost 15 years said that after receiving the latest figures on the tourism survey, he decided that he needed to make a difference and call upon all who work within the valley to stand together. “We cannot say how long Covid-19 will be around for, but we need to look at different ways of tackling issues like these, without having to resort to a lock down. Lock down is not the answer.” said van Rensburg. Speaking to the Ladysmith Herald Belinda Spence, chairperson of Drakensberg Experience said that 2041 staff will be laid off and are expected to draw Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF). “The calculations on minimum wage of approximately R3500 per month will mean that just our area alone will draw R7 143 500 from UIF. Assuming that each household has a minimum of five per family, that is a minimum of 10 205 hungry people if they cannot receive the UIF payment.” The memorandum read in part that “Due to no known vaccine or cure for Covid-19, South Africans will be forced to “adjust to living with the presence of Covid-19” for some time to come. The memorandum highlighted the “widespread failure of authorities” to use the lockdown to make adequate health preparations for the increase in Covid-19 infections, and that the Covid-19 lockdown has been repeatedly extended to become “one of the longest in the world” with many “irrational and destructive” regulations imposed unilaterally. The memorandum further read that: “The lockdown has resulted in massive economic hardship, job losses and high levels of hunger and starvation due to it being “selectively applied” to “benefit certain sectors of the economy and sectors with political leverage”. It said that there was “limited and selective government assistance given to some tourism/ hospitality businesses. It further said that tourism which is a major economic contributor in the Uthukela district, provides jobs for thousands of people with tens of thousands of dependents.” The memorandum highlighted the impact the Covid-19 Lockdown regulations has on the tourism industries which will “take a considerable time to recover” whilst “a large number of hospitality businesses in Uthukela will be forced to close resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs and revenue for the municipalities.” The sector called for Covid-19 Lockdown restrictions on the full trading operations of tourism and hospitality providers be lifted with immediate effect as well as restrictions on the sale of alcohol at businesses be lifted. The sector also called for the UIF COVIDTERS benefits for the industry to be extended to at least 31 December. Mayor Ndlangisa and speaker received the memorandum and said: “It made me extremely proud to have seen so many people stand up for their rights and fight for what is right, I just hope that the message will be received and that people can go back to work,” said Lees. Democratic Alliance (DA) MP Alf Lees says that the stories that are coming from the people are heartbreaking as many are left without food. “The Drakensberg Experience urges our local government officials to hear our desperate plea, see our statistics and fight for tourism for the sake of our destination,” said Spence.