The residents of Simla Road and Gulmal Crescent are still reeling in shock following a drive-by shooting in the area that claimed the life of tow truck employee Brady Arumugan and left his colleague fighting for his life in hospital. The shooting took place in broad daylight, at around 9am on Friday, 10 July. Alpha Alarms reported that a 24-year-old male had been killed in a hail of bullets during the drive-by shooting in Merebank. “At approximately 9.15am this morning, 15 gunshots were heard. Upon patrolling around Simla and Gulmal Crescents, the passenger of a yellow 1st for KZN towing service bakkie, had been shot. He was transported to hospital by his dad, but sadly passed away. The driver of the vehicle also sustained gunshot wounds and was transported to hospital. Our condolences goes out to the family of the deceased,” the security company said. Provincial police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, also confirmed the incident. She said: “It is alleged that a tow truck belonging to 1st for KZN came to park opposite a house on Simla Road alongside the verge and the driver hooted for his co-worker to come out. The male, aged 24, came out and jumped into the front passenger seat of the tow truck. While talking to the driver, a silver VW Polo pulled along aside the tow truck and started firing at the vehicle several times.” Arumugan was shot at several times as he tried to flee and his colleague was also shot by the unknown gunmen. Mbele said: “The passenger (Arumugan) was running when he was shot on the back and left leg. He collapsed and was taken to Wentworth Hospital together with the driver, a male aged 30, who was shot on the arm and lower body. Nine empty 9mm cartridges and three projectiles were seized at the scene.” Mbele said that no arrests have been made as yet. “The suspects are unknown four males who were in a silver polo. The motive for the shooting is still unknown,” she added. A resident who wished to remain anonymous said that the shooting could be related to a tow-truck turf war. He said: “These shootings have been going on for sometime in Merebank and the rest of Durban.”The resident said that the community has been left by the incident. “Everyone is scared because you never know where and when the other side will retaliate, if this is indeed a turf war. We really feel for the family but more needs to be done by the police to end these drive-by’s,” the resident said.
Anyone with information has been asked to call CrimeStop on 0860 10111 or contact the nearest police station.