A 61-year-old pensioner, Deon Smith, was left with a broken arm, over 100 stitches and damage to his left eye after he was severely beaten for more than an hour with a 4.2kg hammer by his attackers, on 22 July. Smith was attacked in his Morristone Place home in Dundee. He is presently stable in hospital and was due to undergo eye surgery. Smith was attacked, whilst alone at home, during a home invasion. At the time of the attack, his wife had been working. No arrests have been made and the Dundee police are investigating a case of house robbery. “The victim is not a farm owner but a tenant,” said Captain Nqobile Gwala, who confirmed the incident. The victim’s daughter, Ivy Smith said: “My dad is not going to be very pleased with me because I am talking to the newspapers, but I feel that people need to know that we are not safe anywhere.” Ivy told the Ladysmith Herald, that her father was home alone when he was attacked by two men. “He told me that they were in their early twenties and that they somehow made their way into the house while he was working on his computer.” She said that her father’s attackers were not only armed with a hammer, but iron rods, as well. Deon was tied up with pieces of clothing and ties. He was taken into the bathroom where his two attackers continued to beat him demanding cash, firearms and keys to the vehicle. “My dad told them that there were no firearms or cash on the premises, but this did not stop them. He believed that if they had a firearm he might have been killed,” said his daughter. The house was completely ransacked as the robbers looked for cash and firearms. After about an hour of the assault Smith’s attackers left with only a firearm safe that contained ammunition and a cellphone. His daughter said that her father’s firearm was kept safely hidden. “We are just grateful, that they did not find it. They also made off with an air-rifle,” she said. The attackers could not find the keys to the vehicle and fled on foot. “My dad waited until they left before cutting himself free. He managed to find the keys of the vehicle. He drove a few meters from the farm premises when a neighbouring farmer spotted him,” she said. “I spoke to people in the area, who said that never had they seen an attack of this nature in the Dundee area.” She said that her father was transferred from Dundee to the Mandeni hospital because of the seriousness of his injuries. “I cannot explain to you how upset, hurt and scared I felt when I saw my dad,” she said. Smith said that her main reason for speaking to the Ladysmith Herald was that she felt that people must be warned about these brutal attacks. Deon was well known in the Ladysmith area before moving to Dundee to live on a farm. “Dad was helping out on the farm and had been living there for almost a year,” said his daughter. The Smith family have been drumming up support on social media, asking South African leaders to take a stand against such crimes.