The community of Phoenix, Phoenix SAPS and the family of Colonel Thajpersadh Hirawanlal are in a state of mourning after Covid-19 claimed the life of the beloved former police officer during the weekend. The seasoned police officer who retired as a Detective Branch Commander from Phoenix SAPS in 2015 spent the past few years of retirement catching up with his family, personal projects and fighting crime now and again. He was a respected police officer and resident of Phoenix who worked tirelessly to curb crime and help the community. Strangely enough, Col Hirawanlal was keen on becoming a swimming instructor in his youth but a chance meeting with a fortune teller in his hometown of Springtown at the time, bespoke of his future as a detective. Sixteen years later, he joined the police force at age 24 and never looked back since then. Col Lall as he was fondly referred to, served at the Durban Central charge office and in 1996 he commenced work as the Phoenix Communications officer at Phoenix SAPS. Captain Louise Naidoo, said: “Col Lall was a man among men. He was a lauded police officer and humble in nature. He served in his capacity as a police officer with integrity and passion and was a shining example for others to follow. Even after his retirement, he found his way back to the station to help and his assistance was always welcomed. He worked closely with the community and never shied away from hard work. His legacy will always be upheld at Phoenix SAPS. We mourn with his beloved family and hold on to the treasured memories.” Chairman of the Phoenix Community Police Forum (CPF), Umesh Singh, said: “Col Lall as he was fondly known to us has left an indelible mark on the community. He bridged the gap between the community and police by his compassionate nature and desire for justice. Upon his retirement, Col Lall had his finger on the pulse of crime in the area and sought to assist wherever he could. He gave unselfishly of himself and loved to serve the community where he resided. His passing leaves a void and our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this time.” Col Hirawanlal leaves behind his wife, Sushilla, and his three children, Lovishan, Avinash and Karishtha, together with a host of family and friends. Family and friends bid him farewell on Sunday prior to his cremation.