Police officers from the Provincial Drug and Firearm Unit remain committed in their resolve to root out the drug trade in the province and on Friday, 24 July, they conducted a takedown operation, which resulted in the arrest of four men for dealing in drugs with a combined value of R50 000 and possession of a firearm. Provincial Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said: “Following a painstaking investigation, the team swooped on two men on Gillepsie Road in the Point policing precinct. A 32-year-old man was found with methcathonone powder and crystal meth in his possession and a 29-year-old man was found with seven half-moons of cocaine, cocaine powder and a packet of methcathonone. The police officers arrested both men and charged them for dealing in drugs.” She said that the police officers also proceeded to the Umbilo policing precinct where they conducted an intelligence driven operation. “They pounced on a house at Noble Road where they found a 48-year-old man packaging cocaine. Police recovered four pieces of cocaine, 123 pieces of rock cocaine and a packet with cocaine powder. They immediately arrested the suspect for dealing in drugs,” Mbele said. According to Mbele, during the course of the operation, members spotted a man concealing something on his waist. “The police officers searched the man and found a firearm with six rounds of ammunition in his possession. The police officers arrested the 23-year-old man for being in possession of a firearm and ammunition,” said Mbele.
All four men appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Jula applauded the Provincial Drug and Firearm Unit for their continued efforts in cracking down on drug peddlers across the province. “We also wish to commend ordinary citizens that contact us on a daily basis and brief us on drug dealers that operate in their community. It is through this active community participation that we are turning the tide on crime.”