A new beginning with his family and grandchildren at his new farm in Pinetown ended in tragedy for a well-known Durban cook. The body of Mohammed Salejee, 81 was found with gunshot wounds to the head in the boot of his car in Umlazi on Monday, 13 July. eThekwini SAPS Inner South Cluster communications officer Captain Cheryl Pillay confirmed the incident. She said that the Bhekithemba police were investigating a murder. “It is alleged that on 13 July the body of an Indian male was found with gunshot wounds to the head at the Engonyameni Reserve. The deceased was found in the boot of an abandoned Toyota Corolla. The motive for the murder is unknown with no arrests being made,” said Pillay. Apart from spending most of his life as a cook at the Badsha Peer Mazaar, a religious place of worship in Durban Central, Salejee enjoyed farming and was planning on taking his family to a farm that he recently purchased. The family never got to visit the farm and has no idea where it is situated as it was going to be a surprise. Sabira Bibi Salejee, his daughter, said the family was still in shock following her father’s murder. “My dad told us that he purchased a farming land in Pinetown where he was opening a take-away as well. Prior to him being murdered, he told us that he was going to this place to open the take-away. He carried a large amount of cash that was going to be used towards this investment. He was excited that day as it was a start to new beginnings. Later that day, we received a call from the police who told us that he was found in the boot of his car murdered, with his hands tied. He was also shot twice in the face,” said Salejee. His grandson, Waseem Sallie, who was at the scene of crime, said that eyewitnesses told him that Salejee was accompanied by three people. “We want justice to be served for what has happened to my grandfather. The criminals should be brought to book,” said Sallie. Salejee was described by family as a loving, caring and gentle person. He enjoyed getting involved in charity work and cooked for schools, family functions and other events. He was living in Chatsworth for the last 55 years and spent more than 60 years as a cook in Durban Central. Salejee also owned a Tailor shop in the CBD for the last 45 years. His wife, Fathima Bibi, passed away five months ago.