More than 27 bags of litter were collected by Durban North residents from the organisation “Mother Nature Matters” along the Saratoga in La Lucia shorelines on Saturday. The organisation’s founder and organiser Zandri Cirinna said that when she recently moved to Durban from Port Elizabeth, she was disappointed and extremely concerned about the state of the La Lucia Beach. Cirinna said that the raw sewage was leaking onto the beach. “Rubbish and litter strewn are still all over the beach and in the ocean. I felt that it was time to step up and encourage the community to take ownership and action in cleaning up La Lucia Beach at Saratoga Parking Lot,” Cironna said. She said that amongst the normal rubbish that usually floats above the shorelines, the group was shocked by the amount of sewage making its way to the ocean. “In partnering with the La Lucia Residents Association, the local council was notified of the sewage leak and action was taken immediately,” she said.
“Unfortunately, due to raw sewage leaking straight onto the beach and rubbish left by fishermen and visitors alike, we need more help on a municipal level.
Amongst the rubbish we cleaned up was plastic, broken glass, ladies handbags and underwear, which was of great concern, fish gut, hooks, takeaway containers, used sanitary pads and contraceptive products and a disgusting amount of straws and earbuds,” Cirinna explained. She said that their vision now is to engage with the community and drive education and awareness. “We had 13 volunteers from the community who joined on Saturday. We will be meeting in Saratoga Parking Lot on the first Saturday of each month to clean the beach for an hour from 8am to 9am. “We will then proceed to take the litter to the dump. We are also looking for opportunities to partner up with recycling depots to ensure the waste is not just dumped in landfills,” said Cirinna. She said that although it is still early days, they are actively developing the initiative further with the long-term objective of engaging with private sector, local government and communities to drive environmental change through the power of partnership. “We are all directly dependent on mother nature for our survival and it is our responsibility to nurture nature. Thus, the concept #MotherNatureMatters was born. We all matter, and we need to respect our source of life,” she concluded. Should anyone require more information, they can follow or visit them on Facebook: https:// www.facebook.com/MotherNatureMatters