The Department of Health has issued a warning of an upsurge in the coronavirus infections in South Africa in the next few weeks. At the time of going to print, 151 209 cumulative cases were recorded and 2657 Covid-19 related deaths were reported. However, there is concern as the number of recoveries dropped to over 48 percent nationally, which translates to over 73 543 recoveries. The number of infections went up by another 6945 in a 24-hour cycle. The department says that it is already preparing hospital beds for the influx. In Durban, a Covid-19 wave is sweeping through the suburb of Overport and the thriving business and residential hub is deemed one of the coronavirus hotspots in KwaZulu-Natal. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, Ethekwini Secure spokesperson, Zain Soosiwala, said: “There are about 24 or so cases known to me in the area within flats and houses and those affected are self-isolating with signs of recovery. Felix Dlamini Road (Brickfield Road) and Alpine Road remain 1 of 19 hotspots in KZN. Individuals who have tested positive are not pariahs or people needing to be ostracised. These are members of our community that deserve to be treated with civility.” “Reports are frequently emanating of Covid-19 cases in flats and businesses in Overport, however, more often than not it is fake news.The messages that are disseminated are being circulated for the purposes of creating panic. Do not be party to it,” Soosiwala said. “The community needs to take cognisance that the coronavirus is real with real consequences. People need to take all necessary precautions when leaving home. Wear your masks, stop giving handouts/stop interacting with any vagrants and remember, people move the virus; it cannot do so on its own, so stay at home where possible. Now is not the time for complacency,” added Soosiwala. He said that Sparkport Pharmacy was the most recent business which closed temporarily on Sunday after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19. Sparkport Pharmacy issued a statement on Facebook confirming that a staff member tested positive for the virus at the Overport branch and has not been to work for a week. The affected staffer is in self-isolation and all other staff members who was in contact with the positive employee have undergone testing and their results are awaited. The pharmacy opened doors for business on Tuesday, 30 June, after decontaminating and fogging the store. The Atrium Berea shopping centre was also allegedly closed on Monday, 29 June, however, when the Springfield Weekly Gazette visited the centre, it was open for business and shopping continued as normal. The only store which was closed was Dischem Pharmacy which was busy with decontamination after a positive covid19 case was reported. Centre management of the Atrium said that they were aware of a broadcast message circulating via WhatsApp messenger and confirmed that it was fake news. Atrium management also confirmed that the Dischem store was closed on the 29 June, after a Dischem staff member was confirmed positive of having contracted Covid-19. A statement from Dischem read as follows: “We can confirm that one of our staff members has tested positive for Covid-19, but we have ensured that the risk of infection has limited transmission to anyone else, thanks to the rigorous preventative health and safety protocols we have implemented. These include daily temperature checks, social distancing, the use of masks, deep cleaning of the entire store with special attention to high-touch areas, sanitiser and protective perspex sheets at tills. In addition, we have just completed a full professional decontamination and sanitisation of the store.
Dischem said that they were in close contact with the Department of Health and were working towards re-opening Tuesday, 30 June. The busy streets of Overport have also been less populated since the news of the outbreak in the area, however, patrons on the streets are still gathering in groups, some without masks and not practicing any form of social distancing, which could be a major contributor to the area being deemed as a hot spot.