The community of Chatsworth says they are slowing losing faith in law enforcement in the area following the arrest of 11 police officers on two separate corruption charges. Chatsworth SAPS members Joash Govender, 29, Pragashan Govender, 36, Brandin Naidoo, 35, Uzair Omarsaib, 30, Rodash Baijnath, 28, Winston Govender 29, Belvenathan Koopersam, 36, and Ashlin Tekram, 32, appeared at the Chatsworth Magistrates Court for corruption and theft last week. The eight officers appeared the same day as their colleagues Rama Moodley, 47, Alicia Peters, 33, and Ashton Rajbansi, 29, who are facing similar charges. The police officers were arrested by detectives from the Provincial Anti-Corruption Unit and Pinetown Cluster Detective Task Team. A Shallcross resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said that it was beyond ridiculous that one police station has so many corrupt officers. “Its greed, that is what it boils down to. Instead of the arresting the criminals the police have now turned into law breakers, just for money. Who do we turn to at a time like this. That police station used to be the best but now a few bad eggs are ruining the reputation of Chatsworth SAPS,” the resident said. In the first case, the complainant told police that on 8 May he and his friends were in Croftdene, Unit 5, in Chatsworth buying cigarettes, when they came across the officers. The victim alleged that as they left the premises, an unmarked police vehicle stopped them and three police officers, Moodley, Peters and Rajbansi alighted from the vehicle. Provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker said: “The police officers questioned the suspects and searched their vehicle. The police officers then stole five cases of cigarettes as well as R4000 in cash from them. When the complainant proceeded to the police station to enquire about his case, he realised that the police officers did not hand in the seized items. He then reported the matter to Provincial Anti-Corruption Unit for investigation.” In the second incident, the complainant stated that on 8 June, seven police officers approached him while he was at his shop, which is at Westcliff, Unit 3. The police officers accused him of selling cigarettes. “Following a search of the premises, the police officers charged him for selling cigarettes and for bribing them with R20 000 in cash. When the man returned to his shop, he realised that the suspects had removed two boxes containing R250, 000 in cash as well as cigarettes. He reported the theft to police at Chatsworth who contacted the Provincial Anti-Corruption Unit,” Naicker said. Police said they expect more arrests as investigations into their involvement in similar crimes are ongoing. Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, KZN provincial commissioner, has welcomed the arrest of the police officers in Chatsworth following an intensive investigation by detectives from the Provincial Anti-Corruption Unit. He said: “This latest breakthrough is yet another endeavour in our promise to rid this province of corrupt police officers and confirms that our citizens have confidence in our ability to take serious action against any of our police officers that break the law. We remain steadfast in our belief that this is the ultimate manner in which we can clean our house and we wish to thank members of the community that have shown a willingness to work with us. We once again salute those that report such corrupt activities to police. We certainly do not need such individuals in our communities.”