The Mapping Chatsworth memory box project will be hosting an online high tea with foodie sensations Prim Reddy and Niranj Pather on Sunday, 12 July at 3pm, on its Made in Chatsworth Facebook page. Former Durban resident and now Cape Town businesswoman, Janet Pillai, a member of the project, secured the foodies. She said that gathering recipes and food stories are key elements of their mapping work. Pillay described Reddy as a small town girl who had a love affair with food and shot to fame on SA TV, in a career that spanned 16 years. “From television celebrity to a complete re-invention within the culinary world, Reddy created ‘The Indian Chapter Restaurant with Prim Reddy’ which is a firm favourite on the acclaimed Cape Town food map. Her love for food crosses cultural boundaries and her ability to tell stories and keep people entertained sparked an interest in writing a book.” Pillai said. Reddy said that she wanted to give the book an edge, a lifestyle offering, wine pairing and a pure celebration of everything that can be celebrated with taste. She invited Pather to add her expertise to the mix. “Niranj is no stranger to the culinary world, she bakes beautifully, cooks beautifully, is a successful entrepreneur and also knows her way around the race track,” Reddy added.
The recently published “Temptations” are the fruit of the partnership. The authors embrace the diverse culinary offerings in cosmopolitan South Africa. The book span cultures and recipes passed down generations. “These are recipes from our travels, dishes we have experienced and added flair of our own. Quick easy meals that make a home chef feel like a million bucks with that extra time to put on some lipstick, put your feet up and have that well-deserved glass of wine,” Pather said. The pair are adamant that whatever the challenges, a family that eats together stays together and the idea was to make easy meals in the shortest possible time that are a celebration for the soul. Radio personality and author Mala Lutchmanan, one of the founders of the Mapping Chatsworth, said: “Dress up in your best and pour a cup of tea with a slice of cake with us on Sunday as our high tea goes high tech.” 