“It feels like Christmas,” said Gugu Hlongwane, who could not wait to give her order, as she and Patrick Cronje sat down to enjoy their first meal in a restaurant since lockdown. More easing under lockdown level three resulted in the opening of places of entertainment, including cinemas and casinos as well as restaurants, among other places. The two were among hundreds of people who could not wait to patronise restaurants, while hundreds more headed back to casinos. However, some outlets said that they would remain closed to sit-down as the novel coronavirus continued to spread at an alarming rate. At the same time the opening of these places have been met with mixed feelings as many others said that they would continue to stay at home, and order in. “It is such an amazing feeling to just sit down and enjoy a meal that is not home cooked,” said Cronje.  The pair said that the first thing on their ‘to do’ list, was to enjoy a delicious meal at their favourite Wimpy outlet. “I know about the dangers of Covid-19, but we have to try and support our local businesses such as our restaurants and tip our waiters, because they have suffered as well,” said Cronje. Wimpy Engen manager, Hope Qwabe, said that the outlet has put all regulations and safety measures into place, including keeping a social distance between tables. “We not only want our community to enjoy their favourite meal, but we would like them to do so knowing that all precautions have been taken to keep them safe,” said Qwabe. Another place that has fully opened to the public is the Ladysmith Bingo Casino and Restaurant. Manager Felicia Magagula said that it was difficult to believe that everyone has come this far and how amazing it was to be back to work. “It might not be normal, but it is close enough and for that we are grateful,”
said Magagula. She said that they were ready to welcome back their clients and that all precautions have been put in place. “We do screening at the door, with continuous temperature readings that will be done.” One restaurant that will not rejoice in the opening is the Butterfly Garden. “We just want to hold on a little longer before allowing people back into the restaurant,” said owner Louie Hu. “We have been serving great meals, but by take-away only. The main concern is that we do not have the income now to hire additional staff.” Hu said that toilets and other areas within the restaurants will have to be continually sanitised. We would rather want to keep our staff and those who always support the Butterfly Garden to be safe rather than exposing them unnecessarily.”