Acting chairman of the board at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH), Mervyn Reddy, has sounded the alarm of a COVID-19 storm which is brewing at the hospital and says that staff are looking to down tools as their safety is at risk while the hospital bursts at the seams with positive cases. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Reddy said the hospital is in a state of being overwhelmed with the high number of COVID-19 patients being treated at the medical facility, currently. “Our ward 9 is overflowing with covid-19 patients while the Medical Outpatients Department (MOPD) which is the isolation ward, is also bursting at the seams with a high volume of positive COVID-19 patients who are receiving treatment and are also on ventilators. “With the increased numbers of members of the public who are coming on a daily basis to the hospital for testing, we are faced with a situation where we are struggling to handle the increased numbers. Staff at the hospital are trying their best but the situation has a reached a point now where we are lacking emergency medical equipment and proper personal protective equipment (PPE). The health of staff is also being compromised as they come into contact with patients who are unaware that they are positive for COVID-19,” said a concerned Reddy. “We know that the management team has been following the dictates of the provincial department of health and the office of the MEC but to what extent can they continue to work under pressure and compromise their own health. When do we say we cannot accept more COVID-19 patients. This explosive situation is also compromising the treatment of other non COVID-19 patients who are in limbo as positive COVID-19 patients are treated as priority. We now need the MEC to intervene and get her hands dirty and touch base with institutions who are dealing with these cases,” Reddy added. “There are a lot of challenges with COVID-19 at the hospital and if the staff at MGMH decide to down tools, there is nothing that we can do as we cannot push them into a situation where they will go into a dark hole and compromise their lives,” said Reddy. A medical staffer who wished to remain anonymous called the hospital out on the critical situation and said in an email to Phoenix Tabloid that as of this week the hospital still did not have a proper plan in place to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. “The ward where possible ‘positive’ patients are being kept had more patients than it can accommodate. There is a major shortage of staff. No one from National or Provincial level has visited this hospital to look at the progress being made, current resources and limitations. It seems that they are given an instruction and they merely have to follow. The management at this hospital seems to be overwhelmed,” the staffer said. “The hospital has had about six CEO’s in the last 8-10 years. Presently, the acting CEO was only employed a year ago as a nursing manager. He has currently accepted a post elsewhere and spends most of his time out of the hospital. There appears to be very little support for the doctors and nursing staff. They are given an instruction that they are forced to follow. The unions seem helpless as they are only willing to fight petty issues that they know they can win. Just like Albert Luthuli Hospital, when a nurse tests positive, others end up going to be tested which depletes the ward. Where is the cover for this? Why aren’t the unions tackling this issue at local, provincial and government levels?” the anonymous medical personnel said. In the vehement tirade, the staffer added: “Why waste R120 million on a handful of foreign doctors that speak poor English and do not understand our country and its people. They keep saying that if doctors and staff follow proper protocols there is minimal chance of cross infection. They say that, but you will never find anyone entering those wards except the doctors and nursing staff that are ‘assigned’ there. Management is always keeping a distance. The quality of the PPE currently being supplied is sub-standard and definitely not up to WHO requirements.” Reddy said that he and his family personally had a vile experience at MGMH when a relative went for a COVID-19 test and as a board member he witnessed firsthand the challenges medical staff undergo while some medical personnel react arrogantly towards members of the public resulting from frustration, during his seven hour wait at the hospital. “We need the public and members of the community to play their part in dealing with this pandemic and helping to flatten the curve. The situation in Phoenix is critical. There is a flood of positive COVID-19 cases in the area. People need to adhere to the strict protocols to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Maintain social distance. Wash your hands regularly. Wear your mask when out in public. Sanitise. Stay indoors as much as possible. Be truthful when going to a medical facility so you do not compromise the health of medical staff. We need to work together to fight against this catastrophe,” Reddy said. “Now, we are waiting for the Department of Health to intervene and help us to fix this spiraling situation at MGMH. We need quick intervention. There can be no dillydallying as we have a life-threatening crisis on our hands and there should be no collateral damage as a result of delayed action,” said an irate Reddy. The Phoenix Tabloid has contacted various personnel within the Department of Health for comment on the dire situation at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. Personnel from the Department of Health responded and said the query has been sent to the relevant unit. No further response was forthcoming.