The nurses and staff at RK Khan Hospital and Gateway Clinic are up in arms over the alleged unethical working conditions at the government healthcare facility. A member of the medical staff, whose identity is known to the paper, alleged that among her team of staff conducting Covid-19 testing, a majority of them have tested positive. It was further alleged that they were forced to appear for work without having the area fumigated and decontaminated. “Despite having staff test positive for Covid-19, the clinic and hospital is still open with no fumigation or decontamination done. In addition to this, patients who have been in contact with the affected staff should’ve been contacted by now. They are not doing anything about it, only those who have tested positive are off, the rest of us are at work in a possibly contaminated environment,” said a member of staff. Another nurse echoed the same sentiments and was disappointed in her working conditions. “It is an extremely scary feeling as a frontline staff member, to have your colleagues test positive and be forced to come in and work in the same contaminated environment. It is a massive risk that we are unwillingly forced to take,” said the nurse.
The hospital has however dismissed the allegations made by their staff members. Acting Senior Manager of Medical Services, Dr BS Madlala, said: “RK Khan Hospital Management acknowledges that Covid-19 is a disease that affects everyone, regardless of stature, race, colour and creed.  It also acknowledges that healthcare workers as frontline people looking after Covid-19 infected and affected people will eventually also become victims of the disease. There is no immunity to getting Covid-19 and healthcare workers by virtue of their direct exposure stand at a greater risk of contracting Covid-19. Knowing all this, extensive measures have been put in place to ensure that the risk is minimised.” Madlala said that extensive training has been given to all staff members on Covid-19 and Infection Prevention and Control guidelines as per national as well WHO guidelines. He said that staff have been provided with adequate personal protective equipment (PPE), in line with national and provincial guidelines. “Once suspected of being covid-19 positive, the employees were sent to the Employee Wellness Clinic within the hospital for investigation. Some employees tested positive after this exercise and were promptly isolated as per the national and provincial guidelines. No staff member that tested positive for Covid-19 was returned back to work. The second step was to assess the risk of exposure of other colleagues in the clinic. All were screened and those that met the requirements for testing were indeed tested as per the guidelines. Those whose risk was assessed to be low were returned back to service after the screening process,” said Madlala. Madlala added that once that staff member tests positive, the normal process of contact tracing has to be followed and is still continuing.  He said that the process will be long, as the clinic manages quite a number of patients on a daily basis. Family members of the affected staff were also included in the process of contact tracing. “It must be emphasised that all staff members who tested positive were immediately put on isolation and were not returned to work. This includes those that showed some symptoms without positive results being obtained. RK Khan Hospital Management has to follow the guidelines of the province as well as the national Department of Health, which are clear on how to manage staff members testing positive for Covid-19 and this was strictly followed. This included decontaminating the whole clinic,” said Madlala. Spokesperson for the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health, Agiza Hlongwane added that it is not practical or in line with the guidelines to send every worker home since not everyone is necessarily affected. “Where necessary and warranted by a formal risk assessment exercise, the affected section of a health facility may be temporarily closed in order to allow for decontamination, however it is not practical to send every worker home since not everyone is necessarily affected,” said Hlongwane.