The next phase of the National Schools Plan to re-open begins on 6 July, despite the rising cases of Covid-19 among pupils and teachers in schools since the first phase was initiated on 1 June. Four schools in Durban, Al Falaah Islamic School, Orient Islamic School, Hartley Road Primary School and Durban Preparatory High School were among the schools that reported positive Covid-19 cases since reopening. Al Falaah confirmed that there were positive individuals in the school, however, the school remains open. “Our school is not closed. We did have cases and because the school is segmented, the cases were managed through our protocols. Those who tested positive are in isolation and are recovering,” said Zaheen Mohamed of Al-Falaah. Hartley Road Primary School could not give comment on the matter and referred the Springfield Weekly Gazette to the Department of Education. The Durban Preparatory High School was also contacted for comment however, the school principal was in a meeting and could not comment at the time of going to print. A teacher has reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 at Orient Islamic School on Wednesday. According to principal Ebrahim Ansur, the teacher has been absent from school since Thursday 25 June. “We are currently in the process of following all the necessary protocols of informing the department of health and the Department of Basic Education. Further communication to parents will follow after consultation with our medical advisory before the end of the day,” Ansur said. This comes after a pupil tested positive at the school recently. “The pupil who tested positive of Covid-19 went into isolation for 14 days and had safely returned to school,” said Ansur. The Department of Education said that pupils in Grades R, 1, 2, 3, 6,10 and 11 will return to school next week and this has caused great concern to parents who are fearing for their children’s lives. A father with a child in Grade 3 said that they fail to understand why government is re-opening schools for foundation phase pupils as many of them are not as responsible as the older children. “My son is eight-years-old, he likes playing and he can’t practice social distancing or wear a mask for a long time. I am worried that when they are in school it will be easy for him to contract the virus even though sanitisers will be provided. A child is a child, you cannot tell him not to touch his face or wash every time they touch something. I want him to go to school but I am scared,” said Femi Shodiya. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education’s spokesperson Sihle Mlotshwa said that as the department they are receiving stats from the schools every Friday which are then sent to the Premier for his weekly updates.
“With regard to the schools mentioned, I would have to check with the district office before giving any confirmation of the cases,” said Mlotshwa. He said that the next stats will be collected on Friday, 3 July. He did not say how the stats affect the re-opening of schools.