The Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act got extended on 1 July, requiring all businesses to be compliant. South Africa’s major data privacy law came into effect at the end of June, and all businesses, big or small will have one year from then in which to make sure they comply, or face fines of up to R10 million. That makes for 373 days and counting as of 23 June. The Presidency announced in June that sections of the Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act of 2013 will come into effect from 1 July. The Bill was actually signed into law in 2013, but only a few parts of it have been implemented, such as establishing the office of the Information Regulator of South Africa. This is all about to change. That means companies will have strict rules to follow about what they can do with your information, how long they can keep it, and on how they contact you. And there is not much time for businesses to make sure they’re compliant. They have just one year, to 1 July 2021, to get everything sorted out. That is all businesses, from guesthouses to multinationals. Fines can run up to a maximum of R10 million. POPI is a very good thing for South Africa as it’s good for business, the economy and individuals. It’s the end of an era where companies can harvest your information and do stuff with it without your permission. Direct marketing will be particularly hard hit, as people will now need to agree to being contacted, so no more cold calls or voicemails from robots. For instance, if someone phones, and it is a spammer. Previously you could not do anything about it. Now you can lay a complaint with the Information Regulator. South Africa is about thirty years behind the rest of the world when it comes to privacy. That affects trade with countries or regions that do have strict data privacy laws, such as the EU. Should you require assistance in regards to the above, kindly contact our office to set up an appointment in which the relevant steps required in relation thereto will be discussed in detail. Disclaimer: This article is correct as at the time of going to press, however, it is no substitute for a consultation with an attorney.
TEL: 031 402 0356
EMAIL: luckylaw@rocketmail.com / conveyancing.luckylaw@gmail.com or litigation.luckylaw@gmail.com