President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on the closure of schools and the management of the resources dedicated towards the fight against the coronavirus (Covid -19), on Thursday, 23 July President Ramaphosa said that the “coronavirus storm has indeed arrived”, with the provinces of Gauteng, Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal experiencing a rapid rise in infections. But even as the country braces for the difficult weeks ahead, it is significant that more than half of those people who we know to have been infected have now recovered. He said that South Africa continues to have one of the lowest case fatality rates in the world, with far fewer Covid-19 deaths. Ramaphosa said that taking into account the call for schools to be closed, Cabinet has decided that all public schools should take a break for the next four weeks. Schools will be closed from 27 July and will re-open on 24 August with exceptions: · Grade 12 pupils and teachers will only take a one-week break, returning on 3 August; · Grade 7 pupils will take a two-week break, returning on 10 August; · Specific arrangements will be made for special schools Meanwhile, the academic year will be extended beyond the end of 2020 and the School Nutrition Programme will continue to operate so that pupils or their parents can collect food directly from schools. Ramaphosa said: “The coronavirus pandemic continues to cause the economy great damage and that is why in April, a historic R500 billion social relief and economic support package was announced: · To fund the health response to coronavirus, to assist businesses, workers and households. There were delays in paying the special Covid-19 (R350) but future payments will be made more quickly now that the necessary systems are in place and will continue to be paid over the full six-month period. · To provide assistance to companies in distress and to protect jobs by supporting workers’ wages. For the months of April, May and June, the UIF’s special Covid-19 benefit has paid out R34 billion, This scheme has now been extended by another 6 weeks to 15 August 2020. · Loans, grants and debt restructuring to small businesses, spaza shop owners and other informal businesses. · Special assistance to businesses in the tourism, sports and creative industries. The rules have been adjusted to expand the eligibility criteria making it easier for businesses to access finance Ramaphosa said “ But what concerns me and all South Africans, are those instances where funds are stolen, misused, where goods are overpriced and food parcels are diverted from the needy. We are hearing allegations about fraudulent UIF claims, overpricing of goods and services, violation of emergency procurement regulations, collusion between officials and service providers, abuse of food parcel distribution and the creation of fake non-profit organisations to access relief funding. “ · National Treasury issued regulations to ensure that emergency procurement of supplies and services meet the constitutional requirements · Regulations were put in place to prohibit unjustified price hikes and ensure the availability of essential goods. · The Competition Commission has investigated over 800 complaints of excessive pricing – so far prosecuted or reached settlements with 28 companies, imposing penalties and fines of over R16 million. · Special audits by the Auditor –general to detect and prevent misuse of funds · Establishment of a coordinating centre to strengthen the efforts among law enforcement agencies so as to detect, investigate and prosecute Covid-related corruption such as distribution of food parcels, social relief grants, etc. · Special Investigating Unit (SIU)– to investigate unlawful or improper conduct in the procurement of goods, works and services during or related to the national state of disaster in state institutions. · The consequences for those who break the law or bypass regulations will be severe. Ramaphosa said: “As all South Africans work together to limit transmission and prepare for the peak of infections, we are also looking towards rebuilding the economy. We cannot wait until the Covid-19 threat has passed, because the virus will continue to be part of our lives for some time to come. We need to work now on a social compact for economic recovery, growth and transformation. The next few weeks will put our resources and resolve to the test as never before. I call on all South Africans to remain strong, disciplined and to stay safe.”