A search is on for an alleged con artist known as Joash Chetty of Milkhaven, Phoenix. Chetty is wanted for allegedly robbing a group of people from various areas in different incidents. He is currently on the run following criminal charges that were opened against him by several victims at the Phoenix and Greenwood Park police stations. Avesh Jagaysor, who fell victim to Chetty’s alleged crimes said: “Joash Chetty has been deceiving innocent people by selling stolen cars, tampering with engine numbers, providing fake log books and involved in the illegal sale of cigarettes. In October last year, I bought a Gold Toyota Run X from Joash Chetty who verified the log book with the licence disc. “I am a paraplegic and confined to a wheelchair and I was not able to see that the engine number was incorrect. He insisted that all was in order.”
Jagaysor said that when his close friend came over to check the vehicle, he discovered that the engine number was incorrect. “I took the car for police clearance and police said the engine number was tampered with which means that the car was stolen. We called Joash on numerous occasions to take his car back and return my money. He then came with another car, a Toyota professional claiming it to be his wife’s car. He told us to use it until he sorts the Run X out. We agreed. Several months passed and he kept on making excuses due to the current pandemic,” said Jagaysor. “Eventually the Toyota professional was stopped by police on 12 June. The police said the car belonged to Mr BM Fynn and had his original log book to verify it. “We came to find out that the Toyota professional was a hired car yet Joash had said it was his wife’s car. The Run X was sold to someone else and the Toyota professional was given back to the real owner. I’m left with no money and no car,” said an irate Jagaysor. “I believe that Joash Chetty had full knowledge and intention to defraud me. He took full advantage of my differently challenged state. He has defrauded many innocent people and needs to face the full might of the law for his inconsiderate actions,” added Jagaysor. Both Greenwood Park and Phoenix SAPS confirmed the various cases opened against Chetty including fraud, theft of cash worth R75 000 and theft of motor vehicles.
Captain Jerome Slater, spokesperson for Greenwood Park SAPS said: “The suspect is believed to have conned people around the Durban area and all police stations are working together to bring the perpetrator to book.” Anyone with information regarding Chetty’s whereabouts is urged to contact the investigating officers, Warrant Officer Moonsamy
(SAPS Phoenix) on
083 778 5338 or Detective Mkhize (SAPS – Greenwood Park) on 079 177 9749. Alternatively you can contact the victims on the following numbers: Avesh on
084 507 7744, Janice on
071 811 5198, Ali on
068 154 3544 or Calvin on
062 958 9198.