 The deaths of two uMlazi ward councillors in recent weeks has cast a dark cloud over the densely populated township and has left the eThekwini region shaken by the loss of the civil servants. The eThekwini Municipality mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said that the recent untimely passing of ward 81 Councillor Nomusa Euna Mthembu on 7 July and the brutal murder of ward 84 Councillor Bhekithemba Phungula has robbed the city and its people of good leaders.
Mthembu, who was the councillor for uMlazi F, C and B sections, recently passed away after a long illness. Kaunda said: “Indeed, we have lost a true leader and a dedicated public servant who was at the forefront of service delivery. She was a councillor that had a wealth of knowledge as she was serving her second term in this municipality. Mthembu will be deeply missed. May her soul rest in peace.” The passing of Mthembu comes after the tragic death of Phungula who was laid to rest on 4 July. Phungula was gunned down at his home on 23 June, in front of his family by unknown gunmen. Former eThekwini mayor and ANC regional chairperson, Zandile Gumede, also shared her sorrow and said: “The passing away of Gogo, Cde Nomusa Euna Mthembu, ward 81 Councillor and chairperson of the Town Planning Appeals Committee has left us shattered. She was a former trade unionist and a gender activist. She served in the Economic Development and Planning Committee. She was one of the most committed councillors. In many occasions, she came straight from hospital to attend meetings and was a very dedicated councillor.” Also paying tribute to Phungula, Gumede said: “We have known Phungula for many years in the ANC and the council. He was a comrade from his youth and has always been active on grass roots in Umlazi. Phungula was a loyal and truthful person, he was not afraid to air his views. His passing has left us with a void. We call on people with information to report it to authorities, moreover we will pray to God and our ancestors to reveal the killers.” Phungula was a councillor and ANC branch chairperson in ward 84 which covers Ngonyameni, Umlazi K-Section, BB-section and CC-section. The investigation into Phungula’s murder has been transferred to the task team investigating political killings in KwaZulu-Natal.