Emilley Naidoo is the owner of Elijahs’ Nursing Home that recently relocated to Westville from Musgrave. Elijahs’ Home is a home for the elderly that has a 24 hour nursing care with registered sisters as part of the team. The Wesville Weekly Gazette spoke to Naidoo about her passion and work at the home. Wesville Weekly Gazette (WWG):
Describe Emilly Naidoo for us? Emilley Naidoo (EM):
I am very passionate about life and try to stay positive all the time no matter how
dark it can get sometimes. I draw my strength from motivational videos, comedy and
family love. My motto in life has always been work hard, play hard. Life is all about balance. WWG: What is your passion?
EM: My passion is people and learning. I have been studying for the past 15 years. I have a Master’s Degree in Business management and I am now currently studying for a degree in social science, majoring in psychology and counselling. I chose psychology because I truly believe that people are the key to growing a business and if you grow people, it’s a win win. WWG: What led you to open the old age home?
EM: I actually acquired it by default. The previous owner could not cope and I stepped in to assist. WWG: How long have you been running the home for?
EM: It’s been 3.5 years, I am also very fortunate to have my mum assisting me
with the old age home. She is very supportive and helpful with the residents and staff. She is my right hand lady. WWG: What is your favourite part when it comes to running the home?
EM: The residents and staff have become a family. It is wonderful to watch them laugh and tease and be playful with each other despite the age differences, religion and race groups. We are a very diverse group of people. Many of the employees at the home are long service some more than 20 years. A resident that joined us recently only came to the home because her mum had been a resident many, many years ago. The staff remembered her when she visited her mum. That was quite a moment.
WWG: What is the most challenging thing about running the home?
EM: When a resident passes away. Especially if they have been with you a long time. We recently lost a resident who has been with us for almost six years. Both him and his wife came to us. They were married for 61 years. He shared his wisdom and it was disheartening when he left us at the ripe old age of 87 due to renal failure. His wife is still with us and although she misses her husband we have been trying to make sure she is comfortable and not lonely. WWG: What does the home mean to you?
EM: It is a very special place. I am pleased that I can be part of this journey and make a difference in the world by providing a safe environment for the frail and elderly. WWG: What age is your oldest member?
EM: 100 years. Our most charming lady Maggie Barhouch turned 100 and it was indeed a wonderful day. Most residents are in their eighties. WWG: How close are you with the residents and staff?
EM: We are all family. I have an open door policy. All my staff or residents can speak to me freely. I understand that the work they do is not easy but they always manage to smile and treat residents in a caring loving manner. I am very appreciative of the staff. WWG: What has running the home taught you about life and old aged people?
EM: It has taught me that we should never take anything for granted and not hold on to material possessions because our life on this earth is so limited, rather invest in making memories with friends, families and strangers. Change someone’s life, share your knowledge, travel to see the world because when you leave this earth, you leave with nothing. WWG: Do you consider the residents as your family members and why?
EM: Oh you have to meet them to understand that. They are so sweet and wonderful. There is also a childlike innocence about them that is so endearing. WWG: What are your favourite moments with the residents?
EM: We have little parties and they participate. Some dance, some sing and some are just funny and quirky. WWG: What do you spend most of your time doing?
EM: I am involved in many things. Between managing the old age home, managing commercial properties, studying full time and raising a teenager singlehandedly I
am quite busy. I do enjoy family time especially with my son, my nieces and nephews who keep me feeling youthful and energetic. WWG: Where is your favourite spot in Westville or Durban?
EM: I am living in Westville for two years now and it has been the best move I have made. My favourite spot is Atasca Restaurant. Before lockdown, I spent many evenings
there especially in the summer just hanging out. Great food, sweet staff and ambience.