KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, announced this weekend that the province is in the eye of the Covid-19 storm and that it is raging. In his weekly briefing, Zikalala announced that the eThekwini district has been recording an astonishing range of between 380 to 1738 positive Covid-19 cases daily, since the beginning of July. “Of the 3 405 new cases recorded on 25 July, eThekwini District has recorded 53 percent of the cases in KwaZulu-Natal,” said Zikalala. According to the breakdown of Covid-19 cases this week, Chatsworth is among nine other areas in the district listed as a hotspot. “We have decided this time to make known every district, suburb, and township that appears to be bearing the most brunt of Covid-19. We are hoping that this will make people realise that the coronavirus is close to them without stigmatising any areas, or making other people feel too safe from it,” said Zikalala. Zikalala added that the picture has dramatically changed. “We have now arrived at a point where almost everyone knows somebody who has been infected with Covid-19.  It is no longer a disease from the distance, it is here at home. It is now our friends, colleagues, neighbours, brothers, mothers and sisters that we know who have confirmed to us that they have tested positive. The storm is here and can be seen through the unprecedented number of infections. It requires us to, more than ever before, be more vigilant, and to adhere to protocols,” said Zikalala. The premier further said that given the rapid rate of the increases of positive Covid-19 cases, those affected should not stigmatise medical facilities but should rather opt to complete their isolation or quarantine period at a medical facility. “One of the things we want to emphasise is the importance for people to be quarantined or isolated at a government facility. We have enough capacity and are urging Covid-19 patients to come forward and be quarantined and/or isolated at these facilities that have been made available by government. This will ensure that patients are well-monitored and less likely to transmit the virus to others, unlike at home, where adhering to safety protocols may be a challenge,” he said.