Jabulile Diko who grew up in Pinetown looks back in gratitude as she celebrates her achievements after a life of hardship. Today Diko, 40, who is Associate Director of Executive Education at Mancosa private higher education institution, is a self-starter, resourceful and a people’s person. She is glad life was not only a bed of roses for her. She spent her early childhood in Pinetown, Durban and attended schools in the former Transkei and Ciskei homelands. Diko obtained a National Certificate: Occupationally Directed Education Training and Development Practices and a Diploma in Production Management from the Production Management Institute. She spent her early childhood in Pinetown, and attended schools in the former Transkei and Ciskei. “I was part of a large family. I do not know my father. My mother was a domestic worker. I moved around a lot and was shunted from one family member to another while I was growing up. “The tough upbringing taught me to be adaptable and self-reliant. I learnt to be resilient and to identify with persons from all walks of life, irrespective of their colour, calibre and age,” she said.
Diko started working with only matric and no experience, she worked in the Eastern Cape, Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal takng on any job she could get. “I looked after children, waitressed at a restaurant, cleaned in a hospitality department kitchen of a college, I answered phones at reception, and subsequently worked my way up,” she said. Diko started working at Mancosa as business development consultant and earned her way up to her current role. “The institution gave me opportunities to learn, to develop and progress, to travel, to inspire, to nurture and the freedom to get involved in any project I chose. This has been a phenomenal and enriching journey. I have grown in many ways, I’m inspired and I am a better person because of it,” said Diko. She has also assisted in getting the centre for Women in Leadership up and running and has put together programmes for various companies. She feels strongly about empowering women and shares all her knowledge she has acquired
from attending seminars and masterclasses. Diko said that having a career also made women economically independent. She said by not having to rely solely on a male partner, the possibility of mistreatment was decreased, especially in South Africa where gender-based violence is rife. Her message for young and aspiring career women wanting to make a success of their lives is to never give up, even in the face of obstacles. “If someone like me, with all kinds of odds stacked against her, could make it somewhere in life, you too must start believing in yourself. You are better, stronger and have much more opportunities available to you. Forward ever, backward never. Learn as much as you can,” said Diko.