Uplifting women by straightening their crowns through the #GirlCode group on Facebook, the creator of the group, Chante’ Le-Tania Shanmogum has started the Unashamed Woman drive. Though the nation was swept up in the sudden doom and gloom of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, Shanmogun used the time off work coupled with her strong family support base to create the online platform for other ‘queens’ to share their stories. After seeing the overwhelming success of the online platform, the 26-year-old flight attendant recognised the need for women’s basic essential sanitary products, especially due to the economic effects of the nationwide lockdown. She described the initiative as a drive created to assist women with their basic essentials. “We also want to make women a priority as we question why we need to pay for something that should be handed out to us for free. Many of us can afford to buy a pack of sanitary pads, tampons and liners, but to some it is not that easy. Research has shown that many young girls in under privileged communities miss out on school and work because of not being able to buy these essentials. I do not just want this to be a once off drive, my motivation is to try and provide these essentials for women on a monthly basis,” said Shanmogum. The name of the drive encourages women to be proud and comfortable as a woman in society and aims to normalise the conversations surrounding a woman’s menstrual cycle, making it easier for young girls to embrace their womanhood. Shanmogum added that the creation of the #GirlCode group has benefitted so many women in their daily lives. “Women have become so much more confident in their own skin, they are able to stand up for themselves due to the inspiration and motivation that they receive from the group. We also offer amazing make-up, skin, hair and DIY secrets and hacks on this platform which our ‘queens’ are really enjoying too! This pandemic has damaged many people us and many of us cannot even afford to buy basic products to survive, so why not try now to make a small difference in someone’s life,” said Shanmogum. With plans to make #GirlCode a verified non-governmental organisation (NGO), Shanmogum urges the Chatsworth community to join hands with her in donating any sanitary item, sanitary pads, tampons or liners which will then be distributed to those women and young girls in need of the items. Those interested in donating can contact her on her social media pages or email suggestionsgirlcode@gmail.com.