Residents of Fairleigh, Newcastle, came together last week in a day of praise and worship for communities reeling under the stress of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Nichole Jasmin, one of the organisers said that their hearts were sore for the community as the people are generally overlooked. “We want to help out where we can. We do a weekly soup kitchen on Fridays where residents turn out in their numbers to receive whatever meal we have cooked for the day. Be it samp and beans or a hearty soup and bread, they are always so thankful for the meal. I am so glad that we could all come together to make a day like this possible,” she said. The day opened with a prayer, followed by songs of praise and worship which was provided by Bishop Dr Lionel Harry and his team. Residents from Siyashlala occupied the open field opposite the Fairleigh community hall to pray against the Covid-19 pandemic that is sweeping the nation. “There are a lot of people in need and it is so good to have some open air church after such a long time,” said Bishop Harry.
Among some of the generous donors were the Philla Amajuba Foundation, which donated cloth masks as well as the Rotary Amajuba District Foundation who donated blankets and instant porridge to the vulnerable. Heaps of donated clothing were laid out on blankets as the vulnerable patiently waited their turn to get something to wear for the cold winter months. Another of the events donors, who preferred to remain anonymous, said that although the demand to help was very high at the moment, it was very difficult to contain the crowds. “If you look around, you can see that a lot of the people who are here today do not have masks on. “They also feel that if they are not first in line then they will go home empty handed. It is so sad to see all these hungry kids here as well. I wish I could feed them everyday,” she said. About 150 people were fed while clothes and blankets were being distributed. “It was a crazy day but I will definitely want to have another project like this,” said Jasmin.
“We are a poor community but we will stick together and help each other where we can. I love everyone and even if we feed a few mouths we can be rest assured knowing that we have done something good for humanity. I am so grateful to all the donors,” she said. Bethel Louw, one of the regular cooks for the soup kitchen says that the needs of the people are her priority. “During this time, we all need God and I am so happy that through this day, people can see that there is hope at the end of the tunnel and that we must just stay positive in attitude and keep the faith.”