“Inequality, an issue which “defines our time”, risks destroying the world’s economies and societies,“ said UN Secretary-General António Guterres on Saturday, 18 July. Guterres was delivering the 2020 Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture, held online for the first time, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The lecture is held annually by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, on the birthday of Nelson Mandela. Guterres began by noting that the Covid-19 pandemic has played a role in highlighting inequality, and exposing the myth that everyone is in the same boat, because “while we are all floating on the same sea, it’s clear that some are in superyachts, while others are clinging to the floating debris.” Global risks ignored for decades – inadequate health systems and gaps in social protection – have been laid bare, he said. The vulnerable are suffering the most. Guterres pointed out that whilst income disparity is stark, with the 26 richest people in the world holding as much wealth as half the global population, it is also the case that life-chances depend on factors such as gender, family, ethnic background, race and disability.  However, he noted that everyone suffers the consequences, because high levels of inequality are associated with “economic instability, corruption, financial crises and increased crime.” Today’s anti-racist movement, he said, points to this historic source of inequality: “The Global North, specifically Europe, imposed colonial rule on the Global South” This led to inequalities, including the transatlantic slave trade and apartheid in South Africa and left a legacy of economic and social injustice. Guterres also referred to patriarchy, another historic inequality: violence against women is at epidemic levels. The UN chief, said he was committed to gender equality. He also announced his appointment of South African international rugby captain, Siya Kolisa, as a global champion for the Spotlight Initiative, which aims to engage men in fighting violence against women and girls. Guterres said that the expansion of trade, and technological progress, have contributed to “an unprecedented shift in income distribution”. Low-skilled workers are bearing the brunt, he warned, and face an “onslaught” from new technologies. Widespread tax concessions and tax evasion, as well as low corporate tax rates, mean that there are reduced resources for social protection, education, and healthcare – services that reduce inequality. Some countries have allowed the wealthy and well-connected to benefit from tax systems, but “everyone must pay their fair share”, said Guterres, and governments need to tackle the “vicious cycle” of corruption. Although climate change is a global problem, the effects are felt by those countries which are least to blame. The issue will become more pronounced in the coming years, and millions risk malnutrition, diseases; forced migration, and extreme weather events.  The only way towards a fair and sustainable future for all, involves what he called a “New Social Contract”, which allows young people to live in dignity; women to have the same opportunities as men; and protects the vulnerable, and a “New Global Deal”, which ensures that power, wealth and opportunities are shared fairly. The UN Chief called for new social safety nets, and universal health coverage, the possibility of universal basic income, investment in public services, and affirmative action programmes and policies to address inequalities in gender, race or ethnicity. He explained that quality education for all, and the effective use of digital technology, will achieve these aims. This would mean by 2030: all children in low- and middle-income countries could have access to quality education. Governments need to transform teaching by investing in digital literacy. He outlined ways that the UN is supporting these efforts, including The Roadmap for Digital Cooperation, which promotes ways to connect four billion people to the Internet by 2030 and “Giga”, an ambitious project to get every school in the world online. The UN chief ended his vision statement, by invoking the importance of international cooperation and solidarity. “We belong to each other”, he said. “We stand together, or we fall apart”.  The world is at breaking point, and it is time for leaders to decide which path to follow. The choice, he said, is between “chaos, division and inequality”, or righting the wrongs of the past and moving forward together, for the good of all. Reference: United Nations