Confidence breeds beauty for former Chatsworth resident, Karishma Ramdev, who recently made the top 15 cut of the Miss South Africa. Ramdev is a qualified medical doctor, working at the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital and she is no stranger to the pageant having previously made it to the top 12 in 2018. The Chatsworth Tabloid recently had the chance to get to know Ramdev better and to find out more about the Miss SA hopeful. Chatsworth Tabloid (CT): Who is Karishma Ramdev
Karishma Ramdev (KR): I am a 25-year-old Chatsworth native, currently living in Johannesburg. I am a qualified medical doctor and a total dog-lover. I have two German shepherds and a golden retriever. They are my babies. CT: Where in Chatsworth are you from?
KR: I was born and raised in Umhlatuzana. CT: Which schools did you attend?
KR: Glenwood Preparatory School from grades 4 to 7 and then Durban Girls’ High School from Grade 8 to matric. CT: As a qualified doctor and working at one of the country’s busiest hospitals, how have you handled the Covid-19 lockdown?
KR: Working on the front lines has been quite stressful as we are one of the main Covid-19 hospitals dealing with the coronavirus. Our working hours have increased drastically due to a new Covid-19 roster being implemented. Everything has been trial and error and we are now trying to figure out our “new normal” as no one expected a pandemic of this magnitude to occur. I am blessed to have had my family as my support structure during this time, always encouraging and motivating me. CT: 2020 has been a tough year globally. Do you see any positives in what has happened in the past months and weeks?
KR: People have had a lot more time to self-reflect and grow as individuals. We are also a very progressive nation, standing up and fighting for what we believe in. All these little wins are contributing to the overall change we need to see in our society. CT: What is one thing you would like to change about South Africa?
KR: The fact that there is still lingering racism in this country. The goal is not to be able to see everyone’s colours as one and tolerate each other. It’s to be able to see our differences and be accepting and loving of one another.
CT: Now that you are a resident of Johannesburg, what do you miss the most about Durban?
KR: Without a doubt it has to be my mother’s cooking. She is such a pro-chef and baker and I barely inherited any of those qualities from her. CT: As a semifinalist in the Miss SA pageant, how do you hope to highlight Miss SA’s new tagline of ‘Face Your Power. Embrace Your Future’, through your journey?
KR: I love the message that Miss South Africa is putting out to young girls. I want to highlight their new tagline by staying true to myself, believing in myself and knowing that I am powerful enough to evoke change. We all are. And what is destined for us will always come to us. CT: Who is a previous Miss South Africa that has inspired you?
KR: Kerishnie Naiker has been a pivotal Miss South Africa for me as she grew up in my home town and achieved the same dream that I have. I see myself echoed in her from the time I was a child until now, and her reign and campaign with regards to TB was incredible. CT: Tell us a bit more about your family:
KR: My father and mother were teenage first loves and have been married for 30 years. I have an older and a younger brother. My older brother is 29-years-old and was born with a genetic condition called trisomy 18q+ and has taught us while growing up, how to accept people’s differences and love them through it. He is the light of my family’s life. My younger brother is 22-years-old and is studying veterinary science at the University of Pretoria. CT: Your favourite meal?
KR: Trotters curry, I think majority of people will cringe at this but I am obsessed and the mere thought of it is making me hungry. CT: Who’s your local and international celeb crush?
KR: Local is Damian de Allende and international is Gigi Hadid. CT: What’s your guilty pleasure?
KR: Chocolate, I want nothing more than to be Willy Wonka and live in his chocolate factory. CT: What do you do in your spare time?
KR: Prior to my internship, I loved reading. But now I get home so exhausted I love just relaxing on my couch and watching Netflix.
I enjoy keeping healthy with some at-home fitness during this lockdown. My biggest hobby of all is horse-riding! I have always felt like I’m flying through the air CT: Do you think beauty pageants are still relevant today?
KR: Beauty pageants are more relevant now than ever. We are changing the perception of beauty and a woman’s role in society. Pageants are no longer about the outer beauty but focus on how a woman can use her strength and knowledge to uplift and empower her community and be a representative for all those who are similar and different to her.
CT: Name two of your female role models?
KR: Michelle Obama has become one of my absolute role models. She said something so profound in her Becoming documentary which went along the lines of, “We can’t afford to wait for the world to be equal to start feeling seen. You’ve got to find the tools within yourself to feel visible and be heard and use your voice.” Another role model of mine is Winnie Mandela, a woman who did not give up in the face of adversity; who fought for what she believed in and was a female leader in her own right. CT: Lastly, what is one piece of advice that you would give to your younger self?
KR: To live in the moment and enjoy each day for what it is. Appreciate the small things and whilst having a plan for your life is important, don’t freak out when things don’t go exactly the way you intended. I remember always wanting to grow up and be an adult, but now looking back I feel like my childhood was so fleeting and yet it was some of the most beautiful years of my life.