Snake’s lives matter. This is what reptile lovers are saying as the focus remains on Covid-19 and most of everything else in the world is being forgotten. Pictured here with a red tailed boa constrictor is Maryna Keyser, who has a passion for snakes and their wellbeing. “The first thing that comes to mind is ‘kill it’,” she says. That should be the last thing to do, she says, advising that people should learn more about snakes. Kill it, would be the most common answer, but for Keyser from Snips Bird Park, snakes are her passion and killing it would be the last thing that comes to mind. “Snakes and reptiles are my passion and I love them the way another person would love a dog,” said Keyser as she calmly handles a red tailed boa constrictor as it slithers around her neck. “These snakes are completely harmless and make good pets as well.” Keyser said that snakes are “misunderstood” and that if people are educated enough then there is really nothing to fear. “Corn snakes are one of the best snakes to have as a pet. They only bite when they are babies but that is because when they are small then everything is a threat to them. The more you carry them the tamer they become. They have no venom and constrict their prey. Nothing will happen if they bite you. You might get an itch due to the bacteria,” she said. Corn snakes are closely related to rat snakes and are often called red rat snakes. They are native to the south-eastern United States, are mostly land dwelling. They are relatively easy to care for and do not grow very large. “Although I love reptiles I would have to say that another favourite of mine is the Tarantula,” she said as she lets the furry spider crawl up her arm. For most people, overcoming the fear of snakes is not something on their bucket list, however for 11 year old Daniel Frank, this has now become a passion. “It all began when I started watching Snake City on TV. It is a show about a snake catcher who rescues snakes from peoples gardens and houses. I slowly began to learn that they are one of the most misunderstood creatures. “My parents were a bit freaked out when I began showing an interest. My dad would just look at me and my mum thought that I was crazy,” said Daniel. He is now nagging his parents for a pet snake. “I would Google and continue to learn more about these beautiful creatures. My little brother, Zeke, who is five, also started liking snakes.” Daniel said that a few months ago, if he asked his mother what her favourite snake was, she would say a dead one. He said that his first snake is going to be a cornsnake.