28-year-old Durban resident, Neliswa Thusini is fulfilling her dream to inspire and create an intimate space for women. Thusini founded the ‘The Queendom Project’, a platform where women come together to network and share resources, while inspiring each other to revive one another’s personal goals. She said that the project is about personal investment aimed at motivating, coaching and raising businesswomen from ordinary people. “This is a project for women by women. It’s for women to be inspired, re-look their lives, fix each other’s crowns and become the best version of themselves. Therefore, we want to invite young women who want to grow their businesses and personalities to be part of the Queendom.” She said that while studying in varsity, she had dreams on how she wanted her life to be, however, she never got any form of support or empowerment and drive. Thusini is a graduate with a diploma in business management and is currently studying towards a supply chain management qualification. “When I looked around the community, a lot of young women had lost touch with themselves. I began to think that if I feel this way, there must be others who do too. That is when I decided to start, TheQueendom”. She said that the project will in future host seminars and exhibitions, promote small businesses owned by women, and coach fellow young women. “During this Covid-19 pandemic, we have been able to assist some girls and women to accelerate in business. We have testimonies from women in baking, laundry, beauty spa’s, makeup artists, farming and businesses expanding through this project. All of this has been achieved through the dedication of all the ladies who supported my vision, they drop whatever they do and make time to empower these women,” said Thusini. She said that she has partnered with Queen Marcia Kgaphola, a local accountant, Dineo Sibiya a business analyst and others who offer their services as part of the project. “We have other sessions like mind power, build a relationship with God, learn principles of network marketing, tell your story, relationship talks and how to brand yourself,” Thusini added. To be part of this project, Thusini can be contacted on 072 029 2089.