Port Shepstone, Gamalakhe, Margate, Murchison, Nzimakhwe, Harding and Scottburgh have been named by KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala as Covid-19 hotspots within the Ugu District. Zikalala alongside Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu on Sunday, 26 July, gave his weekly update on the province’s status when it comes to Covid-19 infections. As of 26 July, KZN has 60 532 Covid-19 infections and 614 people have succumbed to the global pandemic. The Ugu District also saw a sharp increase in the number of people infected over the week, from 1402 on 19 July to 2424 with 15 deaths linked to the novel coronavirus on 26 July. Zikalala said: “The trends and analysis that we present today tell us that KwaZulu-Natal is now in the eye of the storm. The picture has dramatically changed. We have now arrived at a point where almost everyone knows somebody who has been infected with Covid-19. It is no longer a disease from the distance, it is here at home.” He added that the figures now have names and faces, that we all know. “It is now our friends, colleagues, neighbours, brothers, mothers and sisters that we know that have confirmed to us that they have tested positive. The storm is here and can be seen through the unprecedented number of infections. It is unleashing a lot of impact. It is raging. It requires us to, more than ever before, be more vigilant, and to adhere to protocols. It is very painful to see people falling sick, and sometimes dying,” Zikalala added. KZN a week ago, had 40 045 positive cases, of which 2 574 were still active. The province currently has 16 401 beds available, of which more than 3 000 are for isolation. Hotels, lodges and B and B’s have also been acquired for quarantine purposes. Out of those, the province has 11 833 beds that can be used. KZN also has 1 162 quarantine beds within government buildings. “Given the rate at which our infections are growing, we have to do everything possible to save lives. One of the things we want to emphasise is the importance for people to be quarantined or isolated at a government facility. This will help ensure that patients are well-monitored, and less likely to transmit the virus to others, unlike at home, where adhering to safety protocols may be a challenge,” Zikalala said.