Three robbery suspects who were arrested on Saturday for business robbery in Aloefield Road in Springfield Park will be appearing in court this week. It is believed that the owner of the business was busy assisting a customer when six men entered his premises and held him to his desk. The owner of the business who did not want to be named for fear of intimidation said that one of the six men pulled out a firearm, cocked it and pointed it towards him demanding that he open the storeroom. “The suspects then removed three television sets. They also took 16 laptops and 15 monitors. I was also searched and R3000 cash was taken from me together with two cellphones. We were then tied up in the shop and left on the floor,” he said. The owner said that the suspects fled in a white Ford Ranger with no registration plates. The total value of the items taken is R239 400. No one was injured in the incident. Greenwood Park SAPS communication officer Captain Jerome Slater said that members from Greenwood Park SAPS received information on a suspect involved in a business robbery around 12pm on the day. “Upon viewing CCTV footage, one suspect was clearly identified. SAPS members shortly thereafter received further information on the suspect’s whereabouts and immediately reacted,” he said. Slater further explained that the identified suspect was in the Durban North area near the Pick n Pay Hypermarket By The Sea. “Upon arrival, the area was searched and the vehicle that was used in the robbery was spotted parked off. Observation was held on the vehicle by the SAPS members. A short while later, three suspects entered the vehicle and began driving along Riverside Road when the members together with the securities pulled the vehicle over. “One of the occupants was positively identified as being involved in the robbery that morning. After being apprehended, the suspect took the police to an address in KwaMashu where they recovered a number of electronic items in the house that were taken from the business robbery,” said Slater. He said further information led to the premises where they discovered a Silver VW Polo with false registration plates. “The Verification Identity Number (VIN) was checked and the vehicle came up positive, on a Sydenham case. Upon searching the vehicle, members found in the boot various housebreaking implements such as crowbars and bolt cutters. Another suspect was clearly pointed out in the business robbery and arrested. The arrest of the third suspect was made in Siyanda. He was pointed out by other suspects. The three suspects aged 30, 38 and 45 were then arrested and charged with business robbery and will soon appear in court,” concluded Slater. Meanwhile, General Vukani Mgobhozi, eThekwini District Commissioner applauded SAPS members for their quick response to information leading to this excellent arrest. He said: “I want to thank SAPS members for their commitment and professionalism to ensure quick arrests and the recovery of stolen goods.”