Isipingo SAPS is the latest KwaZulu-Natal police station to come under scrutiny following the arrest of two of their members for theft and corruption. The clampdown by the Provincial Anti-Corruption Unit has resulted in a number of police officers being arrested lately in the south of Durban. Provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said that the officers were arrested after the complainant came to the police station to open a case against them. “Information received from the complainant who is a security guard, indicates that he was on duty at a business premises in Isipingo when a male and a female police officer approached him and questioned him concerning an allegation that he was selling cigarettes illegally. He admitted that he was doing so and took them to where he stored his cigarettes,” Naicker said. It is alleged that the suspects instructed the complainant to load the 48 cartons of cigarettes into the police van and they placed him in the van. He also accused the officers of stealing R1 500, which he had in his possession, before they released him with no charge. “The next day, he (the complainant) arrived at the police station and reported the matter to police officers that were on duty who then contacted the Provinces Anti-Corruption Unit. When the detectives arrived, the complainant pointed out both police officers who were also on duty,” Naicker said. Detectives from the unit informed the police officers of the charges against them and detained the sergeant, 38, and constable, 33. “Detectives also obtained video footage from the business premises, which verifies the complainant’s account of what occurred,” Naicker added.
Both suspects appeared in the Durban Magistrates Court on corruption and theft charges. The arrest of the officers has been applauded by the provincial commissioner Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula. He said: “I am pleased that we are finally getting to grips with this anomaly although we know that there is still a long road ahead of us. We will immediately initiate internal investigations to dismiss them from the police service as we cannot afford to keep people with such criminal tendencies on our payroll.”