Cash-strapped Victoria Primary in Tongaat, has confirmed that they will not be welcoming back Grade R and Grade 6 pupils anytime soon, due to the lack of personal protective equipment at the school. Lajeeth Maharaj, Victoria Primary principal, told the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid that the school was unable to meet required precautionary measures of Covid-19 to receive the pupils. He said that the school is struggling financially and that they have recently retrenched eight teachers employed by the school governing body (SGB), due to lack of funds. “I cannot pay their salaries due to parents not paying school fees. Our school is in a financial crisis. The school is unable to self fundraise due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We do not have face masks for Grade 6 and Grade R pupils. I am not accepting other grades in the school besides Grade 7. In terms of staff, we are struggling since there are four teachers that are on comorbidities leave,” he said. Maharaj appealed to the public, the business sector and former pupils of the school to assist by making financial and non-financial support. The school recently welcomed a donation of watering basins and material from the Rampersad family, to aid in the fight against the spread of Covid-19. The watering basins were installed voluntarily by a local plumber Ronald Pillay. The school management has been struggling to source funds from the provincial Education Department to ensure that the facility meets the Covid-19 protocols. Laston Simbanegavi, SGB chairperson, said that he was aware of the financial crisis and retrenchments at the school. He said: “There is nothing we can do. We have run out of options since the education department is doing nothing about our crisis. The school has no funds to pay SGB teachers and to purchase needed material.” Simbanegavi urged parents to pay school fees for their children. Kwazi Mthethwa, KZN education spokesperson, said that he was not aware of the issues affecting the school. “We are still waiting for the report from our district office. Once we get that we are going to intervene to those issues,” he said. Maharaj lauded the Rampersad family for sponsoring all the material for new watering stations in the school. “We would like to place on record our sincere appreciation to the Rampersad family for the great work they do in the community. This great gesture have reaffirmed our faith and trust in humanity amidst these trying times. May their families be blessed always,” he said. Maharaj added that Covid-19 protocols demanded that the school must have watering stations with liquid soap near all classrooms for hygiene purposes. Donor, Roodesh Rampersad, said he was grateful to make a difference in the community. “We have donated a number of watering basins and plumbing pipes to various schools in Tongaat. Water stations are needed in our schools to prevent a widespread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Our government is not doing enough for our vulnarable community schools. Every pupil that is in school is good as my own child,” he said. To make donations or for more information, contact the school on 032 944 1670.