Since the ban of alcohol and the implementation of the 9pm curfew under the nationwide Level 3 lockdown, KwaZulu-Natal has seen a significant reduction in all categories of community reported crimes as announced by KwaZulu-Natal premier, Sihle Zikalala. “For the period of 12 to 25 July, we have noted a 24.2 percent decrease in all contact crimes, which includes murders, attempted murders, assaults, sexual offences including rape and robberies.
During the same period, we have also noted a 28.8 percent reduction in property crimes, which includes burglaries of both business and residential, theft of motor vehicles, theft out of motor vehicles and stock theft,” said the premier. Police Minister, Bheki Cele, said that the police department will be embarking on a virtual media campaign to educate communities on the department’s response to reported gender-based violence (GBV) cases as well. He said: “As part of the Women’s Month activities, the department together with provincial departments will embark on a virtual media campaign to educate communities on SAPS response to reported GBV cases. The aim is to empower communities on understanding the reporting process, assistance provided by the various entities within the criminal justice system and what to do if they are not satisfied with the response provided by the police.” He added that the civilian secretariat for police service is currently planning to roll out a school-based gender-based violence programme, which is aimed at empowering pupils as gender-based violence ambassadors. Cele said that the National Community Police Consultative Forum would participate in a pilot project aimed at removing barriers to the reporting of gender-based violence and assist to mobilise communities for early interventions to address gender-based violence. Police are in the process of signing a service level agreement with the Department of Social Development to avail enough safe houses for victims of crime and to avail social workers as an additional resource in this regard.
“The tide must change on how we respond to gender-based violence matters. The victims of gender-based violence should not be the ones forced to flee their homes to seek for places of safety,” he said. With the slight reduction in crime, Zikalala hopes that it will be a wakeup call for those who believe that they can use this period of the national state of disaster to commit crimes in KwaZulu-Natal and the country as a whole. Mother and son wanted for double murder 