Canelands residents in Verulam woke up to another grisly discovery on Saturday after a second decomposed body was found in a bush located in a sugarcane field in the area. The gruesome discovery was made by unsuspecting farm workers in the vicinity of Hazelmere Umngeni Water Treatment Plant on Vincent Road. The incident follows that of another discovery of a decomposed body of a man, who was shot and dumped in the sugarcane field on 21 May. Captain Henry Kisten, Verulam SAPS spokesperson, confirmed the discovery and that they were indeed human. He said: “Police are investigating a murder case after the man was found dead with a gunshot wound on his head. The motive and circumstances surrounding the incident are unknown at the moment.” Kisten said that the body has been sent to a public mortuary for a post-mortem to be conducted. Prem Balram of first responders Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said that the body of a man was found approximately 15 meters off an unpaved road. “He (the victim) had sustained a gunshot wound to the face, which exited the back of his head. Blood and a grey woolen hat was found next to the unpaved road.
It appears as if the deceased was dragged from the road to where his body was located. His pants was found below his knees,” Balram said. Msawenkosi Mkhize, a resident, said that he was shocked by the incident. He said: “I am concerned about the rise in violent crimes in this area. This is the second body found in almost two months. I urge people to stop killing each other and for police to be more visible in the area, as this has become a killing field and a dumping area for criminals,” he said. Amrit Sukdeo, chairperson of the Verulam Community Policing Forum Youth Desk, said that he was shocked by the incident. He said that it was sad and frustrating to see how low these criminals value human life. “Violent crimes are a priority to our local police station. We take this very seriously and we urge the public to be more vigilant when travelling and walking. It is safe to go in groups instead of walking alone on roads,” he advised. Sukdeo called for community participation in helping police fight these criminal elements.