The Splashy Fen Music festival has been cancelled, organisers announced. “We have spent the last four years working tirelessly to provide an unforgettable experience that our fans long to return to 365 days later. As organisers, we are devastated to imagine a year without Splashy Fen – a cultural pilgrimage for so many of us. It is with an extremely heavy heart that we announce the forced cancellation of our beloved Splashy Fen 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.” This was the latest heartfelt message from Splashy Fen event organisers to their fans, as shared on their website and across the festival’s social media pages.
Earlier this year, with only three weeks to go until its staging, the Splashy Fen Music Festival was postponed as a result of the Covid-19 global pandemic. Organisers announced a new date to host the event in September. However, with so much uncertainty still looming over the entertainment industry, the event has been completely called off. “It had seemed at the time that September would be safer times,” said Stu Berry, festival director. “At no stage did we even consider that a date six months later would be at risk. We negotiated with each and every artist on the line-up to return in September and did our utmost best to deliver Lockdown Live, our virtual Splashy Fen over the Easter weekend, which was free of charge to give our fans some kind of love from Splashy Fen over the original festival dates.  As organisers, and fans of the festival ourselves, we are devastated to accept that it will simply not be possible for us to welcome 10 000 people to the farm in a way that we would all want to experience Splashy Fen,” said Berry.
The core ethos of Splashy Fen has always been to provide its fans with an unforgettable experience that keeps them coming back year after year. It is an experience that event organisers have worked tirelessly to create since taking over the festival management in 2016. It is also an experience that event organisers have invested in over the years; emotionally and financially, as they have ploughed resources, capital and funds back into developing the festival site; not to mention the hundreds of service providers who rely on the festival for an income. While other local and international events have also been cancelled, many have enforced a no-refund policy claiming “force majeure”. Splashy Fen’s long-standing refund policy stipulates a 35 percent cash refund in this instance, but organisers have reworked their existing refund policy very carefully in light of the cancellation, with the main focus being to do all they can to not have to invoke a no-refund policy. At the same time, doing their best to plan and ensure the future existence of the festival. In announcing the cancellation of the 2020 event, organisers are appealing to fans who are able to, to become a “Splashy Hero” and donate their festival ticket back to the festival. These fans will become a part of the Splashy Fen legacy, ensuring its future and having their names etched on the festival history forever in the form of an on-site #splashyhero wall art installation.