Miss South Africa hopeful Aneziwe ‘ Aneh’ Mqadi is looking forward to being a participant in one of the biggest competitions in the country. Being born in the outskirts of the lower South Coast, Ezingolweni, it has always been her dream to walk on the stage of a pageant of the Miss South Africa calibre. Mqadi, currently residing in Durban, says she previously lacked confidence and self belief, but now feels that the time is right for her to give it a try. “I guess being from the rural area has always overwhelmed me. However, I have decided, there won’t be any other time, I need to face my fears and embrace my powers. I have seen so many young people scared to stand up, scared because of their background. I want to change that. I want to encourage everyone to believe in themselves and follow their dreams, no matter where they come from,”Mqadi says. The 26-year-old studied Electrical Engineering at the Coastal College Durban Campus and works at a telecommunications company. “My first pageant was in 2014, where I entered the Miss Coastal College and was crowned as the ‘Queen’ of the pageant. When i got on that stage, I was so scared as it was my first time. Afterwards, I entered many other pageants, I won some and lost some. “This time I want to do this not only for me but for my province and country. I will go as far as entering international competitions,” she says. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, Mqadi says it all unfolded unexpectedly, however, she is hoping it’s not here to stay and will not affect the pageant negatively. “As a country, we should take all precautions and follow the rules in order for us to beat the virus. I think the Miss SA team has got it all covered and all will be uncovered after the online auditions closing date. The Miss SA pageant was scheduled to take place in August 2020. I really hope that the pandemic doesn’t affect any of the progress and programmes that are already planned.” Mqadi’s says her positivity was drawn from the current reigning Miss SA Zozibini Tunzi. “She is such a beautiful soul, I love her so much. Zozi showed me or rather proved it to me that regardless of where you come from, there is nowhere you cannot go to. If I were to be as successful as her, ‘oooh’,  or make it to the finals, I would be the most happiest person on earth. ” I believe a lot in uplifting others, that would be my advocacy,  uplifting a black child. I have taken this first step and I am ready for any result. I know I have trained myself physically, mentally and emotionally, so whatever result come I will be able to face it,” Mqadi says. She added that her motto is: “I am not better than anyone else but I am better than what I was yesterday.” She encourages her fellow young African women to reach for their dreams.  “You would never know what you can do just by trusting and believing in yourself. Trying and failing is better than not trying at all,” she said.