The Zero2Five Trust believes that one small action can change a child’s life forever, and by partnering up with the recently repurposed Bellevue Café in Kloof, the organisation has been able to provide at least 4 800 meals weekly to impoverished communities throughout KwaZulu-Natal.The project distributes at least 500 kilograms of chicken stew, which is cooked in several steaming pots in the restaurant’s kitchen, decanted into 5 litre sealed buckets and taken into marginalised communities all over KZN. Rolling out an average of 100 buckets containing 800 meals per day with a kilogram of rice on the side, Bellevue Café has yet to purchase a single ingredient.This relief scheme has been fortunate to receive generous donations from companies and individuals who stream in on a daily basis to drop off vegetables in all shapes and colours and have made this project a huge success.  “Once again, the Upper Highway community has stepped up and embraced this project. We have had streams of regular guests and friends delivering fresh vegetables, spices and grains and we are yet to need to buy raw materials. Financial donations have continued to pour in with one of our neighbours and friends donating a whopping R60 000 to the project. Our waiting team has really enjoyed the project and whilst the earnings are needed and appreciated, they all say that they love making a difference,” said owner and founder of Bellevue Café, Guy Cluver.  Zero2Five Trust also received an enormous 1421 food relief parcels from the eNCA/ HCI Foundation national campaign, leaving many needy families equipped with a Bellevue stew bucket and a box of  food to last a family of 4 for another 4 weeks.Philip Chitsamba, a long standing waiter at the Café said: “I pray to one day be sitting in a cool place with my grandkids telling them that I was part of the team, Bellevue Café making history.”Julika Falconer, CEO of Zero2Five Trust adds: “We are totally overwhelmed by the support of the big food donors and our Upper Highway community. The monetary donations will allow us to continue cooking and delivering these highly nutritious chicken stews for another few weeks and together with the many other dry food donations we are adding, we help many struggling families survive this crisis. With much uncertainty on when the lockdown will be lifted, on-going projects like this not only supply much needed nutrition but also give the communities an immeasurable sense of community and hope. With the lockdown restrictions in place, South Africa is expecting and fearing a hunger crisis of historical scale.”The initiative will run while Zero2Five have produce and funding, until around mid-June and Bellevue Café will continue to supply 500 kilograms of chicken stew each day every week.For more information, visit www.zero2five.org.za or email julika@zero2five.org.za. 