“COVID-19 is a serious threat facing our nation and the world and by working together we can make in difference in trying to curb the spread of this deadly virus.” Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, Satish Dhupelia, board member at Clare Estate Umgeni Hindu Crematorium Society (CEUHCS), said that as an essential service the crematorium is open for cremations during this period, but is operating with limited staff. “We are adhering to the restrictions of the level 4 lockdown as we did with level 5 and urge the community to understand that there is no relaxing of the rules. There have been queries about allowing more people to attend the crematorium as some families are large and to allow mourners to attend on a rotational schedule so as to maintain the number allowed at any given time but this will not be permitted,” said Dhupelia. “The rules apply so as to minimise risk to those visiting the facility and also to CEUHCS staff. We have registers provided to keep track of the attendees and this is monitored by the Department of Health and the police. Should any detection of COVID-19 be discovered perhaps with a mourner who attended the crematorium att any point, we have on hand the pertinent details to track and trace persons,” Dhupelia added. According to the CEUHCS, the following restrictions remain in place: 1) There will be no hall hire at all during the Lockdown period and online bookings are suspended.  2) Although the national directive for numbers at funerals was 50, the Ethekwini Municipality has issued a directive that only 20 people, including family will be permitted to attend funerals. The Municipality can do so because they have final authority over all graveyards and cremation facilities in the Ethekwini area. This means that only 20 people should arrive at the crematorium for a funeral. Larger numbers are not permitted, even in rotation, as they form an illegal gathering, and we have been asked by the Department of Health and Ethekwini to enforce this. Only 5 people will be allowed in the final rites room. As service providers to the bereaved family, Undertakers and Funeral Services Providers are asked to please inform their clients of these measures. CEUHCS kindly request that when undertakers are accepting funeral bookings it is imperative to inform clients of these regulations to prevent any unpleasantness upon arrival at CEUHCS.  A violation of these rules causes increased risk at the facility and could also result in the CEUHCS facility being shut down. 3) Upon arrival at the Crematorium, Undertakers must provide us with a record of the correct names, addresses and contact numbers of those attending, including their staff members. Recently SAPS have been contacting undertakers for these lists, so please ask families to prepare them and have them ready prior to arrival at the Crematorium. For your ease we are attaching an attendance register which you may print and use.  4)  Funerals will have a time slot of 30 min allocated which includes final rites before cremation takes place.  5) In terms of prohibition of gatherings, family members will not be able to remain on the Crematorium property during the cremation (approx. 2 hours), and so will have to return to collect the ashes. Those visiting the GHAT must please remain on those premises.    6) Hand sanitizers are provided at the entrance, in toilets, and the entire venue will be cleaned and sprayed with sanitizer after each funeral.  Our staff have been briefed on COVID19, and have been issued PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) which has always been part of our SOP (Standard Operating Procedure)  7) As part of our Health and Safety precautions, and to ensure social distancing we are limiting the number of visitors into our offices.   8) We have familiarised ourselves with the measures recommended by the Department of Health and the Centre for Communicable Diseases in the event that a deceased was a victim of COVID19. We have also informed all Funeral Services and Undertakers using our facilities of these recommended measures. During this time we are in constant contact with local authorities and will inform you if there are any changes to the above measures. Dhupelia said: “We thank the community for co-operating with us.” Anyone who may require any further information can email  crematoriumpro@gmail.com and clareestatecrematorium@gmail.com