“The police are supposed to protect us but I find myself scared of them more than I am of Covid-19 at the moment.” A 22-year-old Campbell’s Town resident is reeling from the gross trauma and assault he claims he suffered at the hands of two plain clothes police officers from Phoenix SAPS, recently, after they allegedly badgered him about selling cigarettes during lockdown. The complainant who wishes to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal, said: “On 11 May, an unmarked van with two police officers entered my yard in Campbell’s Town and the policemen asked if I was selling cigarettes to which I responded I wasn’t selling any cigarettes. Both police officers were not wearing face masks at the time and did not provide identification but one officer had a firearm.They then went to our tenant’s room in the outside building and began searching the room. A few minutes later, they began assaulting our tenant who is 59-years-old.” The complainant said he was shocked at their behaviour. “When they left the tenant’s room, one of the police officers who seemed to be intoxicated, fell on his knees while making their way to the main house. They asked to speak to the man of the house and I told them he wasn’t available but they could speak to me. The one police officer said they were tipped off by someone that we were selling cigarettes. “He (police officer) took me to my sister-in-law’s room to search for cigarettes at which point I told him I cannot take responsibility for anything illegal in the room because it wasn’t mine. The police officer made me turn the room upside down in search of the cigarettes and when he didn’t find anything, he proceeded to my room and instructed me to do the same,” the aggrieved complainant added. He said: “The policeman eventually got to one of the drawers where I keep my lottery money. He  told me to open the box which had the lottery money containing R6 000 in cash. He took the money and put in his pocket. He then started kicking the base of my bed saying that is where we were hiding the cigarettes.” The complainant said he was stunned by the behaviour of the policemen and expected them to depart since they found no illicit cigarettes. “The police officer proceeded to the lounge and chased the other family members outside except me. He told them to stand outside by the tree.The police officer looked at me and told me: ‘I’m going to show you something and I will make you show me where the cigarettes are’,” the distressed resident said. He said that the officer took him back to his room where he allegedly put him behind the wardrobe, drew the curtains and locked the door. “I was gasping for air as both policemen assaulted me. The one officer took out the packet and demanded that I tell him where the cigarettes were. I told them I was asthmatic and I could die but they repeatedly put the packet over my head and the only way I got them to stop suffocating me was by lying to them that ‘I will tell them where the cigarettes are.’ I had to lie because I was struggling to breathe and I thought I was going to die,” the traumatised complainant claimed. He said he lied and said they sold the last packet of cigarettes the previous day. “I did this because my life was in danger and I didn’t know what else to do. The police officer said I was lying and again put the packet over my head. I fell down and managed to tear the packet using my fingers. He picked me up and when he realised I tore the packet he said, ‘You p**s, you bust the packet.’ He then booted me on my leg. I fell down but he picked me up and put another packet over my head,” he claimed. “My wife came inside the house with my three-year-old daughter when they heard me screaming. My daughter was hysterical. My wife told the policemen she was going to open a charge against them. One of the police officers grabbed my wife’s hand and I shouted out that he cannot assault a woman carrying a child. My wife broke free and ran out,” the man said. He said that the police officers threatened family members outside who had their cellphones out to record the alleged police brutality. According to the complainant, when they went to open a case at Phoenix SAPS, they were not properly assisted but he alleged that a high ranking official at the station confirmed the vehicles at the scene were police vehicles. “After we made a few phone calls, we were then assisted and a case of common assault was opened. We are seeking legal counsel to pursue this matter. It is pathetic that police officers who are supposed to uphold the law and protect citizens can behave in such a manner. The community is outraged by this incident and we feel we will have to take action if police abuse their power and cause citizens harm in this way,” the complainant added. Phoenix Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairman Umesh Singh said: “I will be further investigating the incident. If found to be true, then this is a really sad state of policing in Phoenix as we are constantly striving to strengthen the partnership between police and the community. We encourage any members of the community who have endured similar experiences to contact the station commander or Phoenix CPF.” The Phoenix Tabloid made several attempts to contact the provincial police spokesperson for comment but none was forthcoming at the time of posting.