The community of Ballito have expressed their outrage at two traffic officials from the KwaDukuza Municipality for allegedly ‘manhandling’ and trying to arrest a child and his father inside their property in Shaka’s Rock, Ballito on Monday (11 May). The incident which was captured on video by a neighbor immediately went viral on social media, drawing the ire of the public. In the video, two traffic cops walk through open gates of a residential property and grab a hold of a child in front of his father. The resisting child starts screaming. A struggle ensues between the father and the traffic cops over the child. The father can be heard telling the officials to “leave the child alone.” and  “get your hands off this child”.  The officials eventually release the screaming child, who runs to a woman standing nearby.  The officers then handcuff the father and attempt to leave the property with him whilst neighbours and screaming children look on. It is alleged that the father and the toddler broke lockdown rules for walking along the beach that morning, and was reported to the cops by someone who had seen them.  The traffic cops arrived as the father and son were entering the property in which they reside. The local community is upset at the alleged disregard for due process in handling the minor and the behavior of the traffic officers that caused the child to experience such trauma. The community has also slammed the traffic cops for not adhering to safety standards during lockdown. It is alleged that both the officers did not practice social distancing during the incident. It is further alleged that the officers did not wear personal protective equipment (PPE) whilst only one officer was wearing a face mask. KwaDukuza Municipal spokesperson, Sipho Mkhize, said that the municipality is  aware of the video making rounds on social media of two of its ‘peace’ officers who ‘seem’ to be in a scuffle with father and child in the Shaka’s Rock area in Ballito. “We do not condone any form of abuse leveled against our residents particularly women and children,” said Mkhize. Mkhize further said that they take cognisance of the emotive issues that the circulating video has stirred. He confirmed than an investigation is underway and that the municipality will issue a formal statement on the incident, after consultations. In the meantime, he called for calm and cooperation in the community whilst the matter is being dealt with. The Active Citizens Coalition, a community based human rights advocacy body, said that they were shocked at the manner in which the police manhandled the child. Secretary-General Mohammed Ismail said: “We have sent the video and a request to the KwaZulu-Natal Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) director to take up further.  We are concerned that such action by the police amounts to nothing more than bullying. They have unnecessarily traumatised a little child, who will have to live with such fear growing up. “ Ismail said: “It is understood that police must implement the law, but I believe that they are doing it in an incorrect and inappropriate way.” The ‘I love Ballito’ Facebook page stated: “This is not the spirit of Love Local or Ubuntu needed during lockdown. This is a developing story and updates will follow as new information becomes available.