An alleged Inanda serial rapist was arrested by members of the Inanda Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) in the early hours of yesterday morning, Saturday, 16 May, following five reported rape cases in the area. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said that brilliant investigating skills coupled with a lot of hard work and meticulous suspect tracing abilities resulted in the arrest of a 29-year-old suspect, for five cases of rape, by the Inanda Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) at Ngoqokazi area. She said:” Five cases of rape with the similar modus operandi had been reported at the Inanda police station from June 2019 to April 2020. The victims alleged that they had met an individual on Facebook who had promised them a job at a tuck-shop. Once the desperate female shows interest in the vacancy the suspect would then direct them to take a taxi from where they are from to Durban and from Durban to Inanda. “The suspect mainly targets females who are not from Durban. Once the female has indicated that they had arrived he would then fetch them as if he was taking them to where they would be employed. He would take them on a route which goes through a river where he would allegedly turn on them and rape them. He would also rob them of their valuable items such as cellular phones and money. “ Other victims alleged that they were called by a female who was looking for someone to be a nanny for her child.  “On the day when they are supposed to meet her, she would then inform them that a male is going to fetch them from where the taxi had dropped them off. Upon arrival, the male would take them through the same route and allegedly rape them at knifepoint. The suspect used the cover of darkness effectively; he insisted that the victims must board the taxi late so that he would be able to fetch them when it was dark,” Colonel Mbele added. She said that Inanda FCS detectives realised that there was a possible serial rapist operating in the area and that they needed to act fast in trying to catch the perpetrator hence preventing further violation of women. They initiated an investigation and they were immediately confronted with the challenge that the victims did not know their assailant hence they could not provide a description of him. He also constantly changed his Facebook accounts which made identifying him a serious challenge for the detectives. The other conundrum faced by the investigators was that because the victims were not familiar with the area they could not identify where he had taken them. Nevertheless he still needed to be found. “Inanda FCS detectives scrutinized every small bit of information they encountered in trying to establish the identity of their suspect. In their quest and following information the detectives travelled to Lusikisiki in the Eastern Cape and from that trip they were able to put together the puzzle. They were able to establish the identity of the suspect and the fact that he was around the Amaoti area. “The detectives endured long hours and sleepless nights in trying to locate where their target stayed at Inanda. Finally their hard work paid off on Saturday morning at about 00:50 when the suspect was finally cornered in a house at Ngoqokazi hiding inside a drum. He was arrested and charged with five counts of rape. He will appear at the Ntuzuma Magistrate Court on 18 May,” Colonel Mbele said. Investigations are still ongoing and there is a possibility that he could be linked to more rape cases. Women who were violated under the above circumstances and did not report to the police are urged to come forward and do so. Colonle Mbele said that the government has made a clarion call galvanising all sectors of the society to rally behind the fight against all forms of abuse perpetuated against women and children. The South African Police Service is mandated to lead the war against this scourge. “Many perpetrators of such crimes have been arrested by the SAPS and handed hefty sentences. But there are those who are not heeding the call to cease the abuse against vulnerable groups in our communities and hope to continue doing so unabated. Unfortunately for them there is no room for such behaviour in our society,” said Colonel Mbele.