Retail outlet Pick n Pay has announced that the popular pensioners’ shopping hour has been moved from a Wednesday to Monday and Tuesday for next week, to help accommodate Sassa payouts.   “As many shoppers prepare to do their grocery shopping next week, Pick n Pay has taken steps to ensure safe shopping and shelves remain stocked,” said John Bradshaw, retail executive of marketing. Next week only, Pick n Pay’s pensioners shopping hour – a dedicated time for elderly customers to have exclusive use of the store to shop for their groceries and essentials – will be on Monday and Tuesday, 4 and 5 May. Stores will open an hour earlier from 7am to 8am exclusively for customers over the age of 65 years, and for pensioner and disabled grant Sassa beneficiaries, before opening stores to all customers at 8am.   Pick n Pay’s weekly pensioners’ shopping hour will then continue from Wednesday, 13 May. From Wednesday to Friday (6 to 8 May), all stores will open at 7am to help accommodate Sassa social grants.   “Staff will assist customers to collect their grants and customers are reminded that they can use their Sassa card to pay for grocery items directly. We are opening early to help our customers get their grants in a less crowded environment. “All stores will be well stocked and prepared for the week so that customers can get the groceries they want during one shop. We understand that customers are looking for real value now so we have introduced great deals on essential pantry items and fresh produce, such as fruit and vegetables, to help customers save. “The health and safety of customers and staff will remain a top priority. All stores have safety measures in place and there is clear signage throughout stores to remind customers and staff of these. Physical distancing measures include floor markers, queuing and shopping with a trolley and limiting the number of customers in store if required. There will be demarcated areas for queues outside stores and marshals will facilitate any queues to help maintain physical distancing. 
 
“Hand sanitiser will be available as customers come into the store and at till points. All stores have Perspex screens at till points, and staff have been provided with cloth face masks. Customers are reminded to wear a mask at all times,” said Bradshaw.