President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement recently, that cigarettes would be allowed to be sold under level four lockdown, but this decision was later overturned during an announcement made by Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma during her address to the nation a few days later. The Chatsworth Tabloid took to the streets to ask residents to share their views on the cigarette sale ban. While most people feel that it is impacting their lives dramatically, there are others who believe that it will help curb diseases relating to tuberculosis and cancer. Gavin Singh, 54 of Arena ParkI am a non-smoker and I am quite happy about the decision that the government has taken to not lift the ban on cigarette sales. I believe that it is detrimental to the health of people. Millions of people suffer from diseases relating to tuberculosis and cancer because of smoking.  Our health system is under strain with Covid-19 and lifting the ban on cigarettes will just cause more strain. I have seen a lot of people use cigarettes and I believe that it is a gateway to drugs. People start graduating to hard drugs. During the lockdown period where there is a ban on cigarettes, it gives smokers a chance to give up their bad habit and live a healthy lifestyle. Sally Valayadun, 68, Chatsworth Tuckshop ownerI feel the ban should be lifted. Customers come daily to buy cigarettes. It is also a high seller for tuckshop owners. With the lockdown, we have lost a lot of business. People are still selling cigarettes which are not South African brands and it is causing harm to their health.  These cigarettes are being sold at extremely high prices. Smokers are left with no choice but to purchase these brands at inflated prices and it is also harmful to their health. If the ban is lifted people will buy cigarettes legally from legal tuck-shop owners and will not be wasting unreasonable amounts of money during the crisis we face. Merlin Smith, 26, CroftdeneLong term smokers will resort to stuff that is stronger, like drugs if the ban does not get lifted. We are going to be fighting a drug war rather than dealing with just cigarettes. The economy will definitely be affected.The cigarette ban should be lifted because there are illicit sales of cheap cigarettes that are causing more people to move around to buy cigarettes illegally. The government will not be making any money due to these illegal cigarette sales. If people are on lockdown in their own house, I do not think the virus can spread through cigarettes. People are not working at the moment and there are illegal cigarette dealers that are selling at over 100 percent profit.  The ban should be lifted to stop the spread of people moving around to buy cigarettes from illegal dealers. It will also be a benefit to our health, because we won’t be smoking illegal cheap cigarettes which are damaging our lungs and making us more vulnerable to the virus. Mckyle Ryan Naidoo, 21, ChatsworthIt is good that the ban has not been lifted for various reasons. I believe that people will have an opportunity to give up the habit which is damaging their body. Smoking clearly says on its packaging that people’s lungs are getting damaged.   If smokers have the opportunity to free themselves from the habit and lead healthy lifestyles, it will prevent other diseases. We are facing a pandemic and people are hardly surviving to buy food during the lockdown and cigarettes are not a necessity at this time.