“We are calling for the SAPS heads to urgently investigate the ongoing violence regarding the drug turf war in Sydenham Heights,” says Sydenham Community Police Forum ( CPF) spokesperson, Satish Dhupelia. This comes after a fatal shooting which claimed the life of a 25-year-old man on Saturday night, leaving two others injured. Jason Jacobus was in a vehicle with two occupants on Crouch Road in Sydenham Heights when gunshots were fired at them. Jacobus was later declared deceased. “There have been between three and four shootings reported at Sydenham Heights during this lockdown period. This is the first of those where a man was killed. We now have a situation with one fatality and two injured. As the CPF, we are urging the SAPS cluster via our Sydenham station to investigate these turf wars. We cannot allow the community to live in fear wondering who will be hit next by a stray bullet while drug dealers continue with their fight.” The mother of one of the injured men who owned the car, Karon Frederick, said: “My son, nephew and Jason entered Sydenham Manor when they were shot from behind. They heard gunshots and continued to drive to safety into the flats. My son was grazed on his back and my nephew was shot twice. Tragically, Jason was killed.” She said that this shooting was not drug related as her son and nephew do not deal or take drugs. “Jason did not either. People in this community are living in fear. Innocent people are losing their lives because of these shootings. We need the army to intervene. This is ongoing and this is way too big for the police to handle alone,” she said. KZN police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele said that on 16 May at 7:10pm, three males inside a vehicle were entering a block of flats on Crouch Road when gunshots were fired at them. “Two passengers both aged 25 sustained gunshot wounds and were taken to hospital for medical attention where a 25-year-old male succumbed to his injuries. A case of murder and attempted murder was opened at Sydenham police station for investigation,”Mbele said. “Managing director of Combined Community Watch, Domenic King, said: “Jason was not a gangster or involved in any criminal activities at all. He was at the wrong place at the wrong time. A thorough inspection of the shot vehicle by police revealed no drugs. Justice will prevail.”