In response to the announcement made by the minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga, on 19 May, Hillcrest Primary School (HPS) released a statement to give feedback to parents on preparations the school has already been making for the safe return of staff and pupils. The school principal, Mr Kemraj said that the school is in a fortunate position that many of the measures that need to take place have been in place since before the coronavirus pandemic. “Instructions regarding the deep cleaning of schools were received this week, and we received confirmation late on Friday, 15 May that we may appoint our own cleaners. As we already have a contract in place with a cleaning company, the deep cleaning of Hillcrest Primary School commenced on Monday, 16 May.” Mr Kemraj said that all cleaning staff are thoroughly screened before being allowed on the premises, and all the precautions for the safety of the cleaning staff as stipulated by the Department of Education are being followed. “As a school we have put in place a number of other precautions that are in the best interest of our school community. While the Department of Education will be providing schools with some additional support to facilitate the safe re-opening of schools, we have decided to take a more proactive approach in preparing for this. To date, we have procured a number of non-contact thermometers to facilitate
screening of staff and pupils upon arrival. We are in the process of putting together an online questionnaire to assist with the daily screening process, as well as for the screening of any visitors to the school. Our aim is to prevent the entry of the virus into the school,“ said Kemraj. He said for this reason, every person entering the school will be expected to sanitize their hands, and to walk through a disinfectant solution to remove the virus from shoes. “We have also put a lot of thought into identifying effective disinfectants to use around the school. In an environment such as a school, it is important to ensure that the disinfectants being used are effective against Covid-19, while being safe to use around children.” With regards to classrooms, Kemraj said that all the classrooms are already equipped with hand sanitizers and upon returning to school, the pupils will be familiarised with an appropriate hand cleaning routine. “Our classrooms will be cleaned every day, as is already the norm, and surfaces will be sprayed with a disinfectant. Particular attention will be paid to the cleaning of common areas, including bathrooms. Unfortunately, this has all resulted in significant un-budgeted expense to the school, however it is a justified expense as the safety of our pupils is of paramount importance to us. Every pupil will be expected to wear a cloth mask every day, “ said Kemraj. HPS will be allowing pupils to make use of a face shield in addition to the cloth mask, however, they may not use a face shield in place of a cloth mask. Kemraj requested the parent’s assistance in ensuring the pupils have comfortable fitting masks and that they have been given guidance on the proper way to wear the mask. “The safe re-opening of schools will place a heightened sense of responsibility on parents to ensure that children who are coming to school are healthy, and we will be relying on families to be supportive of the adjustments to our usual routines and offerings at the school. These are unprecedented times for all us, but I am
confident that as a community we will emerge successfully from the challenges of 2020,” the principal said.