The rapid and feared spread of COVID-19 continues to rattle the community and reports have now emerged of a detective at Phoenix SAPS testing positive for the deadly virus. Major General Radebe from the office of the Provincial Commissioner said: “We are aware of the Phoenix case. Primary contacts were sent for testing. Arrangements for secondary contact to be tested are being made. The station will be provided with a mobile SCS for service delivery. We are busy with the process of decontamination.” An informed police source said: “The station is closed and members have been evacuated. The Community Service Centre ( CSC) is operational.” Democratic Alliance spokesperson for Community Safety in KwaZulu-Natal, MPL Sharon Hoosen said she has addressed the concerns of the affected police officer with Provincial Commissioner General Jula as well as the health and safety measures that must be put in place at Phoenix Police Station. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers Hoosen said: “The Department of Health must intervene urgently to ensure that all SAPS officers at Phoenix police station are tested. The DA is also requesting that– the station is sanitised with urgency,– tracking and tracing of members who have been in contact with the positive member be completed– provide sufficient PPE kits to SAPS members– if more officers are positive that the station is closed and make available a temporary station to continue to assist the community.”She added: “SAPS officers are the frontline officers who are there to enforce the law and protect citizens. We cannot afford for any members to be quarantined due to poor implementation of safety measures at stations during this lockdown period. Therefore obligatory safety procedures must be taken into account. No station should be short of PPE kits and any other products necessary to ensure the station is sanitised daily. The safety of the SAPS officers are of paramount importance.” DA MPL and Phoenix resident, Bradley Singh, said: “The station must be closed for decontamination and proper sanitation. All members who were in contact with the policeman must self isolate. We wish the detective a speedy recovery and our prayers are with him in this difficult time.”