The government has today rolled out the process for the application of the Covid-19 Social Relief of Distress Grant, Department of Social Development minister Lindiwe Sisulu announced today. Zulu said regarding the modus operandi of the implementation of the Covid-19 Social Relief of Distress Grant has been strengthened. “As part of the preparations for the full-scale implementation of this grant, we have successfully pilot tested a new contactless application system that will go live immediately,” said Zulu. A dedicated WhatsApp line has been finalised and set up after it was tested with the  Department of Health’s platform. “Those who have applied through this platform during the testing phase will be processed in line with the set criteria and successful applicants will be notified during the course of this week in order to request additional information for payments,” said the minister. She warned that her department will remain vigilant and not tolerate any form of fraud and corruption. The amount to be paid to qualifying applications is R350 per month from May to October. The qualifying criteria for the special COVID-19 Social Relief of Distress of R350 per month for distressed individuals is as follows: The grant will be available to South African citizens, permanent resident or refugee registered on the Home Affairs system; who are resident within the borders of the Republic of South Africa; Applicants must be: • Above the age of 18; • Unemployed; • Not receiving any income; • Not receiving any social grant; • Not receiving any unemployment insurance benefit and does not qualify to receive unemployment insurance benefits; • Not receiving a stipend from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme; and • Not resident in a government funded or subsidized institution. Prospective Applicants will need to provide the following compulsory information for processing of their applications: • Identity Number/Department of Home permit; • Name and Surname as captured in the ID (and initials); • Gender and Disability; • Banking details – Bank Name and Account Number; • Contact details – Cell phone number; • Proof of Residential Address; The manner in which qualifying citizens can apply for this grant will be as follows: • The new WHATSAPP line will be 082 0468 553 • The USSD or SMS Line will be 1347737# • The email address will be srd@sassa.gov.za. Zulu added: “We are mindful that we may have some challenges as we roll out this grant and we appeal to members of the public to exercise patience as we embark upon this journey.”