Since the announcement of the reopening of schools on 1 June for matriculants and grade 7s, some parents feel that government is gambling with the lives of their children. Parents expressed their views to Tabloid Newspapers. We have to look at the facts in childhood infection rate which is 0 percent; however, the children haven’t had contact with other children or germs since lockdown. I think small schools have a much easier chance of keeping strict measures in place, which is what the Basic Education minister, Angie Motshegka said as well. Public and private schools will be treated differently. I believe school is very important and a lot of children are not coping with distance learning currently.    I’m glad that finally schools are re-opening. I’m a teacher and I can say school is the best place to keep a child. What we should also consider is that school is where children get to be themselves. At home, some of them are being abused and they don’t have food. Going back to school is a relief in more ways than one. During lockdown I have seen some of my pupils (teens) in grade 7 and grade 6 playing on the streets. Others are selling vegetables to put food on the table at home. The chances of having them return to school are very slim as they are used to being at home and have gotten used to making money on the street for a living. On the other hand government must make sure that personal protective equipment (PPE’s) are provided in schools, so that the children can continue learning in a safe environment. I am really happy about government’s decision.   The situation on hand is very dicey yet I still feel it would be a bad idea for children to go back to school. If one child at a school has the virus, it would spread widely. Hospitals are already flooded with patients, how will the country be able to facilitate us if the infection rate grows. I fear for the elders who are guardians to these children. Re-opening of schools is a bad idea.   I don’t think it is safe for pupils to return to school as yet. My daughter is in grade 7 at a boarding school and all the other pupils will be coming from different families and even different provinces. Traveling to school alone poses serious threats of contracting the virus. Even though my daughter is a boarder, there are day scholars travelling to school and back home daily. It is known that the virus can stay alive on wood for over five days and all schools use wooden desks. It is said that the virus can stay alive for over three days on metal and all school desks are metal legged. Teachers themselves could be carriers of the virus. I live very close to a school and I have not seen an indication of measures being taken to prepare the school for opening in terms of cleaning and Covid-19 equipment. I find the minister’s readiness speech is nothing but political talk.