The Durban University of Technology’s (DUT) initiative to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19 ) among the university’s community has the university producing and labelling 1 000 litres of hand sanitizers in four days. Alan Khan, senior director of Corporate Affairs at DUT issued a statement recently explaining that the FastSan 80 hand sanitizers project is driven by DUT’s vice chancellor Thandwa Mthembu. The first batch of 500 MLS spray bottles and five bottles have been collected by DUT’s Covid-19 task team. The hand sanitizers will be distributed free to the staff and students when the university reopens. The executive Dean of the Faculty of Applied Sciences, Professor Suren Singh said that the faculty has a wide array of expertise that could play a role in the fight against Covid-19. According to Singh, the project was spearheaded by Professor Kugen Permual who is one of the university’s leading Molecular Biologists, and director of the BRICS consortium on Biomass Utilization. “Professor Permaul, drove this project with a highly technical skilled team from the Department of Biotechnology and Food Technology at DUT comprising of three staff members, Dr Adarsh Puri, Mr Gaositwe Makalomakwa and Mrs Siphiwengesihle Mbamali. Their passion for using science to make a difference led to the evolution of a unique product,” said Singh. He said that the name of the sanitizer came about in a competition that was held within the department. FastSan was proposed by the Head of Department, Prof Feroz Swalaha, and chosen as it includes the Faculty name and the “80” designates the alcohol concentration. The hand sanitizer is according to the World Health Organization (WHO) specifications. Elaborating on its effectiveness, Permaul said the FastSan 80 Hand Sanitizer uses 80% ethanol as opposed to most of the sanitizers that use 70% or lower ethanol.
“While 70% of ethanol is an effective concentration for inactivating coronaviruses and other micro-organisms, 80% ethanol is more effective. Besides the active ingredient, alcohol, a humectant has been added to moisturize hands and prevent drying out with frequent use. Hydrogen peroxide is added to sterilize the bottles and sanitizer,” said Permaul.