Systems for the special Covid-19 social relief of distress grant announced by President Ramaphosa recently have passed the final stage of development. This is according to the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) in a statement released this morning (Sunday, 10 May). The social development portfolio comprising the Department of Social Development (DSD), the National Development Agency (NDA) and Sassa said that they are “pleased to announce” their readiness for implementation. DSD minister Lindiwe Zulu is expected to announce the launch of the opening of the application process tomorrow (Monday, 11 May). Zulu will present a comprehensive report on the matter to the national co-ordinating council today (Sunday, 10 May). The WhatsApp and related electronic application options will go live on Monday. “Sassa has been rightfully inundated with enquiries from the public about the process of application. The public must be thanked for its patience during these difficult times,” said a spokesperson. “Sassa had to ensure that it puts all the required controls in place to ensure that the grant is only accessed by deserving and qualifying individuals. There was also a need to ensure that these issues are contained in a legal document in the form of a Government Gazette. In the process of developing the required technology, a new number has been secured for applications and the minister will detail how it will work.” A health department WhatsApp platform was used in the initial test where 15 000 applications were loaded onto the system. All qualifying applications received during the test phase will be processed by 15 May. Applicants without smart phones will be able to access this new platform through a Short Message Service (SMS) using the Unstructured Supplementary Data Service (USSD). Volunteers and community development workers will be deployed to assist anyone with applications who does not have access to technology. Manual applications will not be done at Sassa offices and there will be no need to fill in paper application forms. “The platform that will be used is going to be an electronic one due to the need to comply with the National State of Disaster requirements of social distancing among others. Another consideration was the speed at which online applications can be taken and processed as opposed to using a manual system. The huge need out there demands that government acts with speed in order to address immediate challenges facing the country and its people,” said the spokesperson. Applicants are warned not to provide their banking details or PIN numbers to anyone, not even Sassa, to avoid scams. The agency said that it will only request information once the application has been approved. “Once applications are approved, Sassa will request confirmation of bank accounts though a secure site. This will also be done electronically. Applicants have the right to request confirmation that a request is from Sassa in order to protect themselves. “Payment will be effected through deposits made directly into an approved applicant’s bank account if they have one. Applicants without bank accounts can also apply and their payment will be effected through a money transfer. “Sassa reserves the right to validate the information provided by applicants with other public and private databases to prevent misrepresentation and potential fraud.
Applicants will be required to agree with this condition for their applications to be processed,” said Sassa. The launch date coincides with the reopening of Sassa local offices tomorrow. Only a third of employees will return to work. Services will be limited while the numbers of clients served at local offices will be very limited to ensure social distancing and general compliance with the law. Sassa local offices will be attending to specific grants on specific days only: 
•    Monday and Tuesday: Grants for older persons (old age grants).
•    Wednesday and Thursday Child support grants and foster child grants. Under lockdown level four no disability grants, care dependency grants or grant-in-aid applications will be done as the access to health facilities is restricted to emergency and Covid-19 cases only. This means that no medical assessment, which is a legislated requirement prior to an application for these grant types, can be undertaken.