President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Wednesday 13 May, on South Africa’s ongoing measures to manage the spread of the coronavirus through the implementation of a risk adjusted strategy. The President’s address follows meetings with Cabinet and the National Coronavirus Command Council. The president opened the speech by stating that 219 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).  He said that in recording and reporting on the daily figures of new infections, deaths and recoveries, we can too easily lose sight of the fact that we are dealing with human lives. This coronavirus is taking a heavy toll not only on the health of our people, but also on people’s ability to earn a living, to feed themselves and their families, to learn and to develop, and to enjoy basic freedoms that we daily take for granted. Ramaphosa explained that it is nearly 7 weeks since the nation-wide lockdown was implemented. “During this time, South Africans have demonstrated great courage, resilience and responsibility. I once again thank you for the sacrifices you have made thus far. Despite its duration and its severity, the lockdown was absolutely necessary,” He said that without the lockdown the number of coronavirus infections would have soared uncontrollably, our health facilities would have been overwhelmed and thousands of South Africans would have died. The response has been guided by advice from world-leading experts, from South Africa, across the globe and by the World Health Organisation. The experiences that other nations have been through have also given invaluable insights. Ramaphosa further explained that by delaying the spread of the disease the capacity of the health system has been strengthened to put public health programmes in place. The lockdown has given time to extend public health response such as expanding the screening and testing programme, sourcing personal protective equipment for health workers and medical equipment. Economic and social relief Ramaphosa explained that government has introduced an economic and social relief package worth over R500 billion to help companies in distress, to save jobs and to provide some income to informal workers and poor households. Unemployment Insurance Fund ( UIF): The special Covid-19 relief scheme of UIF has paid out over R11 billion to 2 million employees employed by over 160,000 companies in distress. Covid-19 Loan Guarantee Scheme: As of 13 May, the R200 billion Covid-19 Loan Guarantee Scheme, which is guaranteed by the government, had begun to process applications from small and medium-sized businesses. The special Covid-19 grant of R350 a month for unemployed South Africans has been opened for applications. These temporary measures will be in place for six months. Gender Based Violence The president said that there have been disturbing reports of increase in gender-based violence since the lockdown started. The scourge of gender-based violence continues to stalk the country as the men declare war on the women. Lockdown regulations will be structured in a manner that a woman can leave her home to report abuse without the fear of a fine, intimidation or further violence. Easing of lockdown and a gradual opening of the economy Ramaphosa said that South Africa is ready to shift to a new phase in the response to Covid-19. “We are now preparing for a further easing of the lockdown and a gradual opening of the economy, “ he said. Alert Levels Level 5: Has the most stringent restrictions on movement and economic activity. Level 4: The current level across the country – retains most of the lockdown regulations but permits the gradual opening up of certain parts of the economy. Levels 3 to 1: Allow a progressively greater relaxation of restrictions. Some areas of the country may be designated at a particular alert level, while others may be designated at other levels, done according to the rate of infection in an area and the state of readiness and the capacity of its health facilities to cope. For now, infections are mostly concentrated in a few metropolitan municipalities and districts. Stringent restrictions will be maintained in these areas and restricted travel out of these areas to parts of the country with lower rates of infection. Ramaphosa said that a process of consultation will begin with relevant stakeholders on a proposal that by the end of May, most of the country be placed on alert level 3, but that those parts of the country with the highest rates of infection remain on level 4. Certain changes to level 4 regulations to expand permitted business activities in retail space and ecommerce and reduced restrictions on exercise, will be announced. Prevention measures Ramaphosa outlined prevention measures that are crucial and non-negotiable. – Lockdown (to achieve extreme social distancing) – Social distancing – Adopting hand hygiene practices by washing hands regularly with water and soap or sanitiser – Cough etiquette including coughing into your elbow or a tissue – Wearing cloth masks in public places – Use of personal protection equipment by all health workers – Frequent cleaning of the work environment and other public spaces – Symptom screening – Testing, isolation, quarantine and contact tracing Behavior changes Ramaphosa said that the new phase will require each of us to change our behavior with a fundamental shift in our thinking and our way of life. We need to take personal responsibility for our own health and the health of others. Although the lockdown has slowed down the rate of transmission, the coronavirus is still present and will be present among us for a long time. Infections will rise as the lockdown measures are eased. Covid-19 will be a global health threat. The fight needs to become part of our daily lives. Our success in overcoming the coronavirus will be determined by the changes we make in our behaviour. As restrictions are eased, we will need to observe social distancing even more carefully, wear face masks whenever we leave home, wash hands regularly with soap and water or sanitiser, and avoid contact with other people. We will need to re-organise workplaces, schools, universities, colleges and other public places to limit transmission. We will need to adapt to new ways of worshipping, socialising, exercising and meeting that minimise opportunities for the virus to spread. The transition to the next phase of the coronavirus response will in many ways be more difficult than the present one. The risk of infection outbreaks will increase as more people return to work. It calls for vigilance, responsibility and discipline from all of us. Fundamentals Ramaphosa said: “There are a few fundamental things that you ask of us, your leaders. And that is why we must acknowledge that as we have confronted this unprecedented challenge, there may have been times when we have fallen short of your expectations. Some of the actions we have taken have been unclear, some have been contradictory and some have been poorly explained.  Implementation has sometimes been slow and enforcement has sometimes been inconsistent and too harsh.  I want to reaffirm my commitment and the commitment of the government I lead to take whatever action is necessary to safeguard the life, the dignity and the interests of South Africans. “ He further said that government is determined and committed: Ramaphosa said: ”Where we have disappointed, we will continue to make amends. Where we make mistakes, we will continue to correct them. Our collective struggles over the past months have taught us much about ourselves and about each other. We have also learnt a lot about this virus. Although there may have been differences and disagreements, there has also been kindness, empathy and compassion. “A very different South Africa and world awaits us. The greatest test will be our willingness to embrace change. Let us rise to meet this challenge. May God bless South Africa and protect her people, “  said Ramaphosa.