The community of Phoenix has woken up this morning to the shocking news that business mogul and owner of Woodglaze Trading and Gralio Precast, Jay Singh, has passed away. Singh’s family spokesperson, Pastor Mervyn Reddy confirmed the passing of Singh and said: “It is with a sad heart that I want to inform you of the passing of philanthropist and businessman, Mr Jay Singh, this morning. May his soul rest in peace.” Reddy said Singh had been undergoing dialysis treatment after picking up some health challenges following a transplant a few years ago. “Mr Singh took ill and was admitted to Capital Hospital where his condition rapidly deteriorated and he tragically demised. We are in a state of shock. It is unbelievable that Jay Singh is gone,” said Reddy. Singh commenced his business career as a bus driver and the owner of Ronnie’s Buses in Phoenix. He then ventured in to the construction industry in 1992 and was awarded a Municipality contract to construct Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP) houses in Chatsworth, Springfield, Mount Moriah and other areas. More than 10 years later, he commenced his building project in Phoenix in 2004 and according to reports Singh has constructed 22000 homes in the area. Reddy said: “Jay Singh is a son of Phoenix. He never left the area to live elsewhere. He chose to be part and parcel of the community. Singh was a humanitarian and an incredible philanthropist. He found great joy in helping the community. His work in the construction industry ensured that many people could own their own home in spite of the challenges faced.” “Singh touched many lives. He supported feeding initiatives and helped bereaved families to give their loved ones a dignified burial. He thrived on helping the community. He treated his staff like family and ensured they grew and progressed,” said Reddy. “As we endure the restrictions of level 4 lockdown, it is a mammoth task to plan a funeral for a well-respected man like Mr Singh. We will adhere to the restrictions and urge the community to respect them as well. Those who are mourning Jay Singh are encouraged to send their messages of condolences to the family via social media at this time,” Reddy added. “Jay Singh was a friend and more a family member to me. To his wife, Shireen, his six children, two grandchildren and staff, I extend my deepest condolences to you all. My family and I mourn with you. Mr Singh’s legacy will resonate in the good works that he has done and we will strive to keep his good deed alive. Phoenix has lost a precious gem today,” an emotional Reddy said