Bernice Pillay, a Chatsworth mother-of-two who recently fought the battle of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19 ) and recovered, has encouraged those affected not to panic and to keep a positive attitude. Pillay said that it was important to eat healthy, stay hydrated and most importantly to self isolate and monitor your symptoms. She said that being away from her family was one of the hardest thing ever, when facing possible death. The Silverglen resident said: “You are completely isolated in a hospital ward with no contact with anyone, not even the company of another patient. You do not see anyone except for your doctor who is fully kitted out in personal protective equipment (PPE). Your meals get left on a trolley by the entrance of the ward. I spent my days longing to see my husband and children and just wished I could hug them and let them know how much I miss them. I stared death in the face and I am eternally grateful to God for his grace and for healing me. My days continued to remain lonely while being admitted at hospital. This virus is an unpredictable killer and the ones who overcome it are fortunate,” Pillay said. She said that she has always been very careful about the virus, from the very beginning, and was very much in shock and surprised when she tested positive for Covid-19. “I never went out shopping or anything, so having been told that I tested positive was a surprise to me. I am definitely more aware of what I do now. I am very wary of myself at work and in the things I do as I would not want to get infected again. Covid-19 is very real and must be taken seriously. Social distancing is an absolute must. You can never sanitise enough. I did it continuously and I still managed to contract the virus. Wear a mask and obey the rules of the lockdown, that is the only way to stay safe and protect ourselves and others,” Pillay added. When asked if she has any idea of how she may have contracted Covid-10, Pillay said she was still clueless since a person who is asymptomatic can have the virus and not display symptoms. You are in contact with others not realising it. She said it is not just a matter of staying away from people with flu like symptoms, you treat everyone as infected. The symptoms Pillay initially experienced were a very high fever, a blocked nose. body pains and a headache. She later developed a cough which was irritating and left her short of breath. She was sick for three weeks and worried that the children and about the stigma that her family could face once the community became aware. “Luckily for me, I have not been negatively impacted, my community, work and family were very supportive. My youngest daughter, Teah Chante was my primary caregiver when I was in isolation and during my days in recovery. I have never had anyone behave differently towards me. My support structure has been my amazing pastor, family and friends and the community at large. Staying away from my family has been the hardest thing I had to do. I isolated from the very first day I felt sick as I was unsure if it was the flu or the virus. My time in hospital was the most painful as I was completely alone and I became depressed,” Pillay said. Describing how she felt prior to being diagnosed, Pillay said, “I first felt really run down and tired. By the next morning, I developed a headache, had nasal congestion and a temperature of 38.7 degrees. It felt exactly like the flu so I began to medicate myself at home. This did not work so I visited my doctor, who treated me for the flu and sent me home. He did however keep in constant contact with me via phone and had asked me to come back to his rooms a day later, as my temperature was 39.8 degrees and was not subsiding. Upon arrival I was immediately given paperwork and asked to go for a Covid-19 test at a lab in Musgrave. It only took 24-hours for my worst fears to be confirmed as the results came back positive. By then, the headaches were so severe and over the next few days, my symptoms worsened. I had lost my sense of smell and taste, had no appetite, and my temperature always remained over 38.5 degrees. The body pain that accompanied all of this was so debilitating that I could not get up to go to the bathroom. I also developed a terrible cough which made it difficult for me to sleep.” As days went by, the coughing became worse and Pillat said she felt tightness in her chest and began to gasp for air. After going for an examination, she was told that her body was not getting enough oxygen and that her condition was deteriorating. An ambulance was called and she was immediately taken to Life Chatsmed Gardens Hospital. “I was sad because I knew I was not allowed to hug my husband goodbye or have a chance to say goodbye to my kids. They began my treatment immediately in the ambulance. For me, it was the scariest thing ever, as I did not know if I was going to see my family again. At the hospital, I was immediately hooked up to machines. Chest x-rays revealed that I had developed pneumonia as well. The treatment I received from staff was speedy and efficient. Thankfully no one in my family was affected. They were tested twice and was confirmed negative,” Pillay said, Pillay encourages everyone to stay home, practice good hygiene and social distancing. This has kept her family safe. “Not everyone who is infected will go through what I have but if you do, there is much hope for recovery,” said Pillay.