Criminals are targeting businesses during this lockdown period and Durban commercial owners are warned to increase or upgrade security measures onsite to prevent becoming a statistic of crime. This follows a number of industries and businesses being targeted by criminals last week throughout greater Durban. “An armed gang went on a six-hour looting spree at a Pinetown business from 11pm on Tuesday night through to 5am on Wednesday clearing the premises of a vast amount of liquor after tying up the security guard,” said Blue Security community and media liaison officer, Andreas Mathios. “The three suspects arrived in a vehicle and held up the security guard at gunpoint before tying him up and locking him in a car. “Evidence shows that they gained access to the premises by cutting the wire fence, breaking a window and cutting the roller-door locks. They also damaged the alarm system,” Mathios said. He added, “They then spent the next six hours loading the getaway vehicle with boxes of wine, whisky and vodka.It was established after the incident that stolen items included two plasma TVs, two laptops and multiple boxes of wine, vodka and Scotch whisky. Investigations are continuing.” In a separate incident, a business owner arrived at his business premises in Umbilo on Wednesday morning and discovered that the office had been robbed. “It appears that suspects had broken into the building early on Wednesday morning. Access was gained to the reception area by breaking a window and cutting through the burglar bars,” Mathios said. “The main office and reception area was ransacked and a laptop and large amount of cash was removed. Umbilo SAPS attended the scene and the case is under investigation,” Mathios said. “Lockdown is not deterring criminals and in some instances quieter industrial or retail districts are a boon for illegal activities to occur undetected,” he added. “It is therefore vital that businesses ensure their premises are sufficiently protected with well-maintained and efficient security systems,” Mathios said.”Ensure perimeters have electric fencing, are well-lit and are connected to a security provider’s control room. Arrange for regular patrols by a security provider. On-site guards should also be provided with remote panic buttons that can be activated at any sign of trouble,” said Mathios.