It was a traumatic start to the weekend for a Woodview resident and a friend who were accosted, assaulted and robbed by a gang of armed suspects, on Friday evening (15 May). The ordeal initially unfolded as a hijacking scenario but the suspects then gained access to the residence. The Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) Phoenix Operations Centre received multiple calls from residents in the area at approximately 5.15pm reporting shots being fired. A few callers claimed that the victim was also shot. Rusa head, Prem Balram said: “Several Reaction Officers and medics were dispatched to the scene and on arrival found the victim bleeding from an injury to his head. It was confirmed that he was assaulted during a hijacking and not shot. It was established that a visitor was entering a property when at least four men ran into the yard as the driveway gate was closing. They confronted the male victim as he exited his home and assaulted him with the butt of a firearm before locking him in the bathroom.” Balram explained that the homeowner managed to free himself and retrieve his firearm. ” As the suspects were driving out of the property in the visitor’s BMW 3 series, the victim opened fire on them. The suspects abandoned the BMW and fled in either a silver VW Polo or silver Toyota Etios. The victim was treated on scene for an injury to his head. Reaction Officers, SAPS and other authorities searched the area for the suspects but no arrests were made,” added Balram. Phoenix SAPS communications officer Captain Louise Naidoo confirmed the incident and said a house robbery case is being investigated. “It is alleged that the complainant opened his driveway gate, house gate and door for his female friend to enter his premises. He then went into the kitchen when he heard her screaming. Upon checking, he noticed that she was on the ground outside and three males were around her. Two of the suspects entered the house and one produced a firearm,” Captain Naidoo said. She added that the male with the firearm assaulted the complainant on his head with the butt of the gun. ” They pushed him into the house where they continued to assault him and demanded to know where the safe and cash were kept. The complainant informed them that he did not have a safe or cash. The suspects then ransacked the house taking the complainant’s 32 inch Sinotec TV, laptop and Huawei cellphone valued at R12 000. They left the premises and the complainant heard a vehicle drive out. He alleged he quickly retrieved his firearm from his room and ran out. He noticed the suspects’ driving out in his friend’s vehicle, a white BMW,” said Captain Naidoo. She explained further: “At that moment, the suspect in the driver’s seat fired a shot at the complainant who returned fire, firing three shots. The suspects abandoned the vehicle and fled in different directions with one suspect firing two more shots in the wake of their departure. The TV and laptop were found abandoned in the vehicle. The suspects managed to flee with the complainant’s cellphone. The complainant sustained head injuries and was treated at the scene while the motor vehicle was damaged as a result of gunshot holes.” Phoenix Community Police Forum chairman Umesh Singh said that criminals are running amok undeterred during this lockdown period. ” They are merciless and brazen. Thankfully, the homeowner and his guest are safe though sadly injured and distraught. We urge residents to be vigilant whilst entering and exiting their homes. Residents should watch when family or friends arrive and depart as criminals are lurking and ready to strike at unsuspecting victims,” said Singh.