A coalition of concerned churches called the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Christian Council have flagged emergency relief as their immediate focus and will be roll-outing out ‘Hope Vouchers’ to vulnerable families in each of the 11 districts in KZN over the next three months. To ensure maximum efficiency and accountability, the Food Relief programme is being driven by five Christian NGOs, each offering specialist areas of expertise, working together under a single umbrella network comprising City Hope, Domino Foundation, Nation Changers, SA Red Cross and Zoe Life as a part of the broader project convened by the KZN Christian Council. In order to be as inclusive as possible and to support all those in need, a group of volunteers working through Zoe Life are focusing their support efforts on foreign national communities in particular, as they are not always able to access government and formal relief programmes. “We are sincerely affirmed and excited by the willingness of  myriad church organisations who are eager to work together in an astonishing show of  solidarity to address various urgent concerns in the fall-out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the related Lockdown and their impact,” said CEO of the KZN Christian Council, Douglas Dziva, who is co-ordinating the combined churches’ response coalition. Initially, their food relief consisted of hampers of basic food staples and hygiene products. Since 25 March 609 756 meals have been packed and distributed across KZN. However, in the interest of improved efficiency and deliverables, and not relying on cumbersome and expensive distribution networks, there is a move to use food coupons, ‘Hope Vouchers’ which can be redeemed at retail partners, Boxer, Checkers, Pick ‘n Pay and uSave. The vouchers have been made possible through innovative, cutting-edge technology powered by a well-established SMS voucher service provider, to develop a solution that sends vouchers via SMS to beneficiaries identified by local community leaders and church networks to be redeemed at retail partners. With operational costs funded by a designated grant, and the service provider supplying the bespoke system at cost, this solution is extremely cost effective with 98% of funds getting directly to the beneficiary. For what will be the first time in living memory, a broad and inclusive partnership of Mainline Churches, African Initiated Churches, Pentecostal Churches, Christian Ministries and Associations, Ecumenical Networks and Ministers’ Fraternals across all demographics, languages and geographical locations, of all towns and villages in all 11 Districts and eThekwini Metro, throughout KZN have united in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Church leaders invite businesses, organisations and individuals to contribute generously. Visit the KZN Christian Council website for more information https://www.covid19response.co.za/ For donations, online giving, stats, maps and accountability visit https://www.dominofoundation.org.za/ and click on the Covid-19 relief button.