President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on Tuesday, 26 May, on places of worship being opened, with restrictions, and the call by religious leaders for a day of prayer as the country unites against the coronavirus pandemic. He said that the National Coronavirus Command Council decided to accede to the proposals made by the interfaith leaders, in accordance with certain norms and standards. The President said that this pandemic has taken a toll on South Africans emotionally and spiritually. It has “shaken our sense of well-being and security” and many of us are “anxious and fearful” of both the present and the future. “As a nation, we have a responsibility to respond to this pandemic with effort and urgency. We have a responsibility to also take care of the spiritual, psychological and emotional well-being of all South Africans. We understand the impact that the closure of places of worship have had on members of the faith community, which has worsened the distress of communities,” he said. He affirmed that leaders in the faith community provide spiritual guidance, care and counselling to millions and that the faith community is an integral part of South African life and has contributed to the fight against the coronavirus. He said that the focus is now on enabling people to cope during this crisis and rebuilding our shattered economy. The faith community will play a huge role in providing spiritual support and social relief. Ramaphosa announced that as part of the regulations for alert level 3, places of worship may re-open subject to strict restrictions: · Churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and other recognised places of worship may resume services, but limited to 50 people. · Social distancing will have to be observed and worshippers will have to wear face masks. · Religious organisations must put protocols in place for cleaning and sanitising places for worship before and after services. · Religious rituals that carry the possibility of exposing worshippers to risk should be avoided. Sanitisation is paramount. · Religious leaders will be recognised as essential religious frontline workers for spiritual counselling to members. · Religious leaders will officiate at funerals of no more than 50 people. Ramaphosa said religious leaders occupy positions of trust and authority in communities, and need to play a proactive role in raising the level of public awareness around the coronavirus. He welcomed the offers made by religious bodies to avail their facilities for the fight against the coronavirus – by providing additional space for school lessons, for quarantine, for screening and testing or for places of shelter for survivors of gender-based violence. He said that this new phase of managing the coronavirus “as a constant in our daily lives” will be more difficult. It demands vigilance and sacrifices. The social distancing and hygiene measures that are in place under the lockdown cannot be abandoned or compromised. Ramphosa urged South Africans to continue to be guided by the overriding principle of doing whatever it takes to preserve life. He said: “In helping our nation to cope with these difficulties, we acknowledge and welcome the call that has been made by our religious leaders for a national day of prayer on Sunday, 31 May, when we will come together to pray for the healing of our land and the protection of our people.” He said that prayer will comfort and strengthen us as we continue to confront this pandemic. “There is one belief that unites us, and that is our belief in South Africa, in its people, in their courage and in their ability to overcome even the greatest of tribulations, “said Ramaphosa.