KZN MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), Sipho Hlomuka has expressed his concern at the deteriorating fiscal situation in the province’s municipalities following the outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19) which has brought many industries in the province and country to a standstill. According to information collected by Cogta, since the implementation of the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, many municipalities across the province have not been able to collect enough revenue in March and April. Hlomuka said that as a result of the revenue shortfall, it could result in a situation where the quality of services offered by municipalities is compromised. He urged residents to utilise various platforms, which include digital platforms, to pay for services that are rendered by their respective municipalities. “It is important that we continue to pay for services which we receive from our municipalities. While we understand that the economic situation facing many of our communities is dire, there is a need for all of us to not neglect to pay for services, such as water, electricity and rates, as the financial viability of our municipalities depends on revenue generated from these services. We are appealing to residents who have defaulted to make the necessary arrangements with their respective municipalities,” said Hlomuka. He said he also welcomed the gazetting of new regulations which pave the way for revenue generation and allows municipalities to re-commence. According to the guidelines that came into effect on Thursday, 7 May, municipalities are now allowed to operate revenue-generating services which include: • payment for licenses; • issuing of licenses of vehicles, renewal of drivers’ licenses and roadworthy certificates; • municipal trading services, such as water and electricity, property rates, refuse removal, and rental payments; • issuing of clearance certificates; and • meter reading. “The sphere of local government in our province and country is facing immense pressure as a result of Covid-19. Through this crisis, we have seen this sphere taking the lead through the sanitisation of public spaces, such as municipal buildings, with the aim of preventing the spread of Covid-19 in our communities. As our municipalities re-commence with the process of rendering the revenue-generating services, it is important that Covid-19 guidelines be followed so that we can protect our residents,” said Hlomuka. He further urged the residents to consult with their respective ward councillors or municipalities regarding when the services will be open. ” Municipalities and municipal entities are also urged to ensure that they adhere to all Covid-19 public health regulations and containment prescripts, especially those relating to gatherings and physical distancing when performing essential municipal services which include revenue collection, he said.