After months of deliberating and hoping, the Comrades Marathon Association (CMA)  has finally accepted defeat and confirmed the cancellation of the 95th edition of the ultimate human race. Cheryl Winn, CMA chairperson, released a statement on 14 May stating that the decision to cancel the 90km down run marathon was not made lightly by the board, KwaZulu-Natal Athletics (KZNA) and Athletics South Africa (ASA). Winn said: “It is with profound sadness and regret that the CMA Board, in conjunction with ASA and KZNA, had to make this decision. We do so with the knowledge that it will come as a great disappointment to thousands of Comrades runners, who together with us at CMA, have been holding out hope that the race would somehow proceed.” She said they had hoped for a postponement, to later in the year. “Alas with the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of abating and anticipated to peak in the coming months, there is no telling what is yet to come,” Winn added. The board’s sentiments were shared by ASA President, Aleck Skhosana, who said: “Cancelling what would have been the 95th edition of the Comrades Marathon was a long and arduous decision to make. With the race’s rich history, its powerful nation-building attributes and contribution towards social cohesion, as well as its immense economic impact, it would have been premature to rush into an outright cancellation sooner.” Winn reassured runners on a number of concerns raised by athletes, including training and refunds, and advised that CMA will deal with the roughly 2500 foreign and 25 000 South African entries received for the 2020 Comrades Marathon in due time. Jay Reddy, KZN Athletics administrator, said: “As KZNA we stand united in our endeavour to overcome the devastating consequences of this disease. We call upon all our members and associates to engage in strategies to address the broader issues of the environment and the pressing needs of our people in the true spirit of the Comrades. We urge our athletes to continue to observe the Covid-19 regulations, engage in activity responsibly, and take every precaution to prevent the spread of the virus.” So far the CMA has decided that with regards to SA entrants, based on the assumption that all entrants would have eventually qualified to participate in the race, they will not be refunded their entry fee but will instead receive a Comrades2020 runners T-shirt and goodie bag, as well as a Comrades badge and flash. Distribution details will be outlined soon. International entries will be deferred to Comrades2021 or Comrades2022, depending upon the athlete’s wishes. In addition, foreign athletes will also have the option of availing their 2020 entry for substitution in 2021 only.