As South Africa scaled down to level 4 restrictions yesterday (Friday) with permission to exercise, the Durban Beachfront promenade was abuzz with members of the public out in their numbers to stretch out their lockdown limbs and catch some sea breeze. Sadly, the busy promenade caught the attention of government officials and the eThekwini Municipality has since informed the public that the beach promenade remains closed under level 4 of South Africa’s Covid-19 lockdown.eThekwini Municipality’s Acting Head of Communications Unit, Mandla Nsele, said, “While the Municipality recognises that level 4 allows some activities such as jogging and cycling with a 5 km radius from your home, however, at this stage such activities are prohibited within the City’s promenade.” According to eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, the saftey of residents comes first.“We are not going to take any chances. Everyone needs to be mindful of the fact that the city is the epicentre of this pandemic.  We are going to embark on a deep cleaning and sanitising operation of the entire facility before we open it to the public,” Mayor Kaunda said.He added, “We are appealing to our residents to bear with us and we apologise for the inconvenience. Yes, residents have been yearning for jogging and cycling on the promenade but we cannot dice with their lives.” The eThekwini Municipality has from today began the process of sanitizing and disinfecting the entire facility to ensure public safety. The promenade will be opened for public use tomorrow under very strict conditions, while other public spaces, including ablution facilities, remain closed until further notice. According to the regulations, only residents residing within the 5 KM radius are going to be able to use the facility from 06h00 to 09h00. Law enforcement will unwaveringly monitor all activities allowed under level 4 and will not hesitate to deal with non-compliant members. Residents are encouraged to comply unceasingly with regulations of level 4 of South Africa’s Covid-19 lock-down, by among others wearing masks and practice social distancing. “The Municipality in consultation with the Provincial Joint Command took extreme precaution in compliance with the National Disaster Act. The city is calling upon all its residents to wear masks and obey Covid -19 regulations at all times,” Mayor Kaunda said.