Like it or not, a cautious life behind a mask is a future that looms for all South Africans. As per the regulations of  Level 4, it is mandatory to wear a cloth mask when you leave your home to go to work or go to the shops. In level 4, movement is still limited to necessities, but you no longer need to return home with a loaf of bread as proof, for just in case you are stopped by the police or soldiers because you do not have a permit or reason to be outside. “A tale to tell the grandkids, ” some say. Life as we know it has changed. For better or worse, we still don’t know, but one thing we know for sure is that the rest of 2020 will never be the same. The easing of some of the restrictions in Level 4 by President Cyril Ramaphosa since 1 May, gives us a chance to rebuild and restock before we are forced back into hibernation or indoors by the winter months to come. As we approach the cold winter months also known as flu season, it is important that you wear your mask and stay safe. South Africa’s official coronavirus portal, sacoronavirus.co.za says: “The main benefit of wearing a mask is to reduce the amount of coronavirus (or influenza virus) being coughed up by those with the infection thereby reducing its spread through droplets. Since some persons with the coronavirus may not have the symptoms or may not know they are infected, everyone should wear a facemask.” How will life be in Level 4? It is not what you think or at least are hoping for. You will still not get to buy your cigarettes or alcohol, but you will be allowed to move around a bit more but only if you are going to and from work and also to buy essential foods and for medical care. You still cannot cross the invisible provincial lines or borders. International border gates will also remain closed, with the exception of repatriation flights for South Africans and foreign nationals leaving the country. All gatherings, apart from funerals and for work, remain prohibited, so don’t plan your wedding and end of lockdown parties just yet. As shebeens, bars, pubs and sit-down restaurants will remain closed, no alcohol or wine tasting is allowed yet. Public transport is limited on the number of passengers it carries with hygiene requirements to be met including sanitising and passengers must wear face masks. Social distancing remains. However, there will be an exception made for the transportation of goods across provincial lines and one can also travel for exceptional circumstances such as funerals. The public is encouraged to stay at home, other than for essential personal movement, doing essential work in sectors that are under controlled openings according to the regulations. Some businesses have been allowed to resume operations under specific conditions. And the range of goods that may be sold were extended to incorporate certain additional categories. People can exercise alone – under strict public health conditions. The elderly, and those with underlying conditions, must remain at home and take additional precautions to isolate themselves. We have been rushed into the Fourth Industrial Revolution, by a deadly invisible foe where working, learning and social gatherings are now online, so it is time to revive the #datamustfall movement. Welcome to your new normal, on Level 4 lockdown.