By Denver Naicker Today we celebrate a Mother’s Day like no other in the experience of our generation. Many of us won’t be able to see our mums today but I am sure that most of us will be sending them virtual love and gratitude. Today is also one of those days when we are reminded that sometimes, celebrities are like us. They have moms too ! Tabloid Newspapers spoke to some well known and inspiring individuals to find out how they are spoiling their mums during this nationwide lockdown. We spoke to Kajal Maharaj , actress in Imbewu The Seed,  Sorisha Naidoo, businesswoman and wife of popular Durban tycoon Vivian Reddy and the iconic Margaret Hirsch , about how they planning to spend Mother’s Day this year. Kajal Maharaj:  This year is going to be very different given the challenging times we are all facing fighting covid19. We will be at home like everyone else in the country but we will be feeling so grateful and blessed to have our family. These times have made us appreciate having our family and extended family around. The simple things we took for granted, like a hug or mummy’s food is greatly appreciated now. Isolation has made us miss, cherish and value what we were blessed with. A strong family bond. Priority is placed on our health and this trying time has only made me feel so lucky that the people I love are here for me to tell them that i love them every day. The tradition for Mothers Day is always to have a family lunch together. We celebrate my mom (Rehena) for she is the woman who we all look up to. The one who was always a firm pillar of strength for our family and a nurturer, making sure we all pursued our dreams. Her prayers have always been so strong that when she prays for her family, miracles happen. I really look up to her fierce strength and beautiful vulnerability. We would usually have my sister-in-law (Veshnee) over as well, who is a new mom having blessed us with my nephew, Zeyar. We would celebrate this milestone in her life as well and what an incredible mom she is. My mom-in-law (Ayesha) would be celebrated for the strong, independent and compassionate mom that she is. She is the greatest support system. And we would also celebrate my helper (Sne) who is our saving grace and a mom to us all.
Right now my kids are busy creating the messiest little artwork masterpiece which I already love. As far as Mother’s Day food is concerned , home  cooked meals are still our favourite. A traditional lamb breyani and a video call to connect us all. Sorisha Naidoo : This year I will be spending my lock down Mother’s Day with my kids and pugs. I think my kids have a surprise breakfast and play planned. . I normally spend Mother’s Day with my mother, kids, and extended family. We always have a big lunch. My fondest memory of my mum, was the day she got back from work at 8:30pm in the evening and I was having an issue telling time, I think I was in Grade 3 or 4, she sat with me till 11pm until I got it all right. She always gave her best to me. I plan to see my mum and all the family as soon as this is over. We will make up for it with a big lunch and time together. My kids always have many home made surprises for me and that’s what makes them so special. Cards, meals and home made gifts. I will be doing a roast lamb and crab curry, and paneer with veg fried rice for myself. During this lockdown be grateful for the days with the woman who loves you more than life itself and if your mum is not around, cherish the memories that you have made in the past and be the best mum you can be to your kids. Margaret Hirsch : I would  normally spend Mother’s Day with my family over a huge family lunch prepared by myself with my 2 children and 5 grandchildren and my 95-year-old  mum. We are so blessed to have her as part of our life. This year I will spend a quiet day at our farm with my husband Allan who I hope will prepare a surprise day of pampering for me starting with a healthy breakfast and a sumptuous lunch. There you have it. With technology today , we can at least FaceTime our mothers and give them some virtual flowers today, knowing that they are healthy , and safe at home helping to flatten the curve.