The NgeDlengedleni community has called on the help of local councilor Bhekokwakhe Majola, after they claim that a “huge snake” has been killing off their livestock in recent weeks. In the area known as Umloyomayo, situated just 35km outside of Ladysmith, at the foot of the Ilenge mountain, runs the Sandsriver. The Ladysmith Herald journalist, led by councilor Bhekokwakhe Majola toured the valley to get to the bottom of the story of a “snake dragging livestock far beneath the muddy waters”. Khanyila Mpiyakhe, a local, who also joined the tour, explained to the Ladysmith Herald, that children who were on the river banks watching cattle, have said that they watched in horror and disbelief as one of their father’s cattle, a most prized cow was allegedly dragged to the bottom of the river. “We can’t describe to you, what we were seeing, as it was so unbelievable and terrifying at the same time,” said the children. Mpiyakhe explained that the children were watching the cattle drinking water, when suddenly the herd became frightened. “There was just white water, like turning water and the cow was dragged under water by what seemed to be a huge snake,” said Mpiyakhe. Councilor Majola said that the river is used for fishing, drinking water for animals and people. Community members also cross the river to reach town. In the last two weeks, the family has lost their prized cow and four goats. He explained that the area is rural and people come to the river on a daily basis to collect water for drinking and cooking food. “I just really fear that this snake does not drag a person into the water. The community has called for a pedestrian bridge to be built across the river, only then people will feel safe,” said Majola. When asked what happened to the carcass, the family said that they had managed to collect the carcass and cut up the meat to eat. When asked if the animals had any bite marks, the community could not answer. “We are not telling lies, we are telling you what had happened. We saw a huge snake.” said the group of people that gathered along the river bed to point out where the attack of the livestock took place. Meanwhile, snake expert, Fanie Cilliers, of Ladysmith Snake Removal, said that it is unlikely to be a snake, as they don’t really hunt from water. “The snake will not be able to drag such a large animal as described by the community into the water,” he said. Cilliers believed that this could be a crocodile and added that the community has told him about sightings of crocodiles in the area. “It is very difficult to say, because with traditional culture stories, many people believe that there is a huge snake at the bottom of every river or dam and that it will drag anything or everything to the bottom. But without proper evidence of the carcass or video clips, it is difficult to say what it is,” said Cilliers. It was also reported that there is a snake as huge as a bus in the area, which has been spotted by community members. Cilliers said that cages with bait will have to be placed near the sightings of the “snake”.