The General Justice Gizenga Memorial Hospital (formerly Stanger Hospital), in KwaDukuza, has temporarily stopped taking patients due to Covid-19 infections. This follows laboratory confirmation of 16 positive Covid -19 cases at the hospital involving 9 mothers, 2 babies, 4 doctors and 1 nurse. KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu issued a statement on Tuesday, 5 May, stating that the priority is to protect other patients and staff. “As a Department, we are extremely concerned by these developments, and have urgently exercised our Constitutional obligation to prevent a further outbreak of the virus,” said Simelane-Zulu. Simelane-Zulu explained that the infections have taken place in spite of the hospital’s Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) measures, as well as  the requisite use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) made available to staff. The first known Covid- 19 case involves a mother who reportedly did not disclose that her husband was one of the positive cases linked to a supermarket in Ballito. She was housed at a boarder mothers’ lodge at the hospital, where other mothers soon tested positive. Simelane-Zulu said that an urgent investigation by Communicable Diseases Control and IPC experts is underway, to establish how the virus was able to spread at such a rapid rate within the hospital. “All of the hospital’s laboratory-confirmed Covid -19 positive staff and patients have been isolated, and all protocols for contact mapping, tracing, testing, quarantine and isolation have been followed, in compliance with guidelines from the World Health Organisation (WHO), “ said Simelane-Zulu. The hospital, with 219 patients, has been turned into a quarantine site. All staff and patients in the surgical ward and ICU have been tested. The remaining staff and patients will be tested and the interim plan will be reassessed in the next 24 hours. Simelane-Zulu said that as a precaution, the facility has stopped taking in new patients, while the Department ascertains the true extent of the challenge; and decontaminates the facility. To mitigate the impact on service delivery, low risk patients will be diverted by Emergency Medical Services to the district hospitals. Serious medical and surgical cases will be diverted to King Edward Hospital. Obstetrics and gynaecological cases requiring care at regional level will be diverted to Mahatma Gandhi; King Edward; and RK Khan hospitals. Chronic patients will be assessed at the gate and will be issued with 3 months’ medical supplies; and be down-referred to Central Chronic Medicine Dispensing and Distribution (CCMDD) sites. Meanwhile, alongside the investigation, a high-level outbreak response team from the Province is currently engaging with hospital management, organised labour, and other relevant stakeholders on best practice to ensure the safety of staff and patients. Simelane-Zulu urged hospital staff and the community of KwaDukuza to remain calm while the Department continues to work flat-out to minimise the public inconvenience. She said that the Department will closely monitor the situation and are confident that everything will soon return to normal.