While scientists, health experts and governments across the world unite in an effort to come up with a vaccine for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19), the government of Madagascar is pushing a herbal remedy called Covid-Organics or Tambavy CVO which they claim can prevent and cure patients suffering from Covid-19. Covid Organics is a traditional remedy that is made on the island of Madagascar. The herbal drink is composed of Artemisia Annua and medicinal plants endemic to Madagascar. Artemisia is normally used in the treatment of malaria and fever. The herbal mixture which was developed by the Malagasy Institute of Applied Research was officially launched last month by the president, Andry Rajoelina. Rajoelina said that his government was already collaborating with foreign doctors and researchers for research possibilities of the Artemisia plant which is the main component of Covid-Organics. South Africa has expressed willingness to assist Madagascar to undertake scientific analysis of Covid Organics. This week, in a twitter post, Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, confirmed that a call was received from the government of Madagascar asking for help with scientific research. ”Our scientists would be able to assist in the research. We will only get involved in a scientific analysis of the herb,”  said Mkhize. Last week, Rajoelina, spoke during an online meeting of African leaders about the traditional medicine. Following that meeting the African Union (AU) asked to see scientific data gathered so far on the safety and efficacy of Covid Organics which could be reviewed by the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC). The AU issued a statement saying that it is in discussion with Madagascar over Covid Organics, to obtain technical data regarding the safety and efficiency of the herbal remedy. ”This review will be based on global technical and ethical norms to garner the necessary scientific evidence regarding the performance of the tonic,” the statement read. Despite this, African countries such as Tanzania, Guinea-Bissau and Equatorial Guinea have already made plans to import the traditional remedy. On 4 May, the President of the Republic of the Congo, Denis Sassou Nguesso, dispatched a special plane to Antananarivo to collect donations of the traditional remedy for Central African Republic, Congo Brazzaville and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a statement this week, stating that it welcomes innovations including traditional medicines in the search for potential treatments for Covid-19. However, they advised against the use of products to treat Covid-19, which have not been robustly investigated. “This can put people in danger, giving a false sense of security and distracting them from hand washing and physical distancing which are cardinal in Covid-19 prevention, ” said WHO. Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa said that they are advising the government of Madagascar to take the product through a clinical trial and that WHO is prepared to collaborate with them. “We would caution and advise countries against adopting a product that has not been through clinical tests for safety and efficacy. There are now around 50,000 confirmed cases and 2000 have lost their lives across the African continent, and it is incredibly important that countries use data-driven, evidence-based approaches in the response.” said Moeti.