KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala joined by Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu and eThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda launched the Transnet Phelophepa healthcare train clinic, in Phoenix, yesterday morning (Tuesday,19 May). The healthcare train clinic is aimed at boosting the testing capacity of the coronavirus (Covid-19) in KwaZulu-Natal and is part of government’s efforts to curb the spread of the deadly virus. Addressing members of the media and the community of Phoenix, Zikalala said that the Phelophepa health train initiative was the cooperation of various government structures and entities. “We are here today to unveil the healthcare services that will be provided through this train called Phelophepa train which means ‘good clean health’ which is what we are providing to communities. The Department of Health KZN and SANDF will be providing the services needed to ensure that our people are safe. The train itself has been donated to provide healthcare services to communities by Transnet and the Solidarity Fund as well as other structures that contributed. If we work together as departments and as spheres of government, we will certainly make a bigger impact in the community. The Phelophepa train will not only deal with Covid-19 but all other health related issues that need to be attended to,” said Zikalala. Zikalala thanked Transnet and the SANDF for their contributions and support towards the fight against Covid-19 as well as members of the media for their efforts in educating communities. He explained that one of the critical tools of fighting Covid-19 was information and knowledge. Dr Mathapelo Mashaphu, Manager of Transnet said that Phelophepa is a 440 meters in length, 19 coach train that carries about five clinics, namely the psychology clinic, general health clinic, dental clinic, eye-care clinic as well as a pharmacy clinic. “This is a train that will travel the rails of South Africa covering all provinces and rendering primary healthcare facilities to the most needy communities that are normally under resourced,” said Dr Mashaphu. Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said that the Municipality, Department of Health and the SANDF will be working together to provide all the services needed to make this a success. She added: ” Instead of providing different facilities or different services when we are actually targeting the same communities, we decided that it was necessary for us to work together. When Transnet spoke to the Premier, they made an offer that they will give us the train for a number of weeks and we’ve decided to utilize it in five different districts for a period of two weeks each. “The first one is Phoenix which will assist with cases of both eThekwini and iLembe District because they are very close to each other. It will then move to the King Cetshwayo District Empangeni, Ulundi to service the area of Zululand, from there it will go to the Ugu District and then Pietermaritzburg,” said Simelane-Zulu.