A Trenance Manor resident is fed up with the rampant crime in the area, and has said that locals are living under the siege of criminals who attack them inside and outside their homes.Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Talz Pillay, said, “We are living our lives in fear. During this lockdown period, these criminals have been roaming the area and attacking residents who step out to go to the nearby shop. There also appears to be a syndicate operating in the Trenance Manor area. House robberies are happening often and the suspects come in vehicles.”“We fear for our lives because in the muggings these criminals do not just take your  bag, they have knives and want to harm the victim.My husband rushed to a woman’s assistance when she was robbed recently. The two women and a man were surrounded by three suspects. The suspects wanted to stab one of the women. They fled when my husband rushed towards them,” Pillay said. “These criminals are ruthless. They hang around by the pathway and dense bush opposite Springmanor. The pastor’s house on that road has been robbed thrice and thieves have disconnected the alarm  system at another house and fearlessly went back a second time for items,” added Pillay. “The police need to patrol our streets. We don’t want someone to lose their life before the authorities intervene.As women with children and families, the young and elderly, we are all at risk as victims for these lurking criminals,” said Pillay.Phoenix CPF chairman Umesh Singh, said, “We need residents to report all incidents to the police so vehicles can be deployed to patrol. We do not want residents to live as prisoners in their homes and in fear of stepping out.These are dangerous times, hence, we urge residents to take the initiative and join the sector forums in their respective areas. Also, get to know your councillor and convey your concerns so that they can be addressed.”“We need intervention in Trenance Manor. We feel as if we are a forgotten community,” said a distraught Pillay.