Nursing has been a profession with high standards and a strong sense of public service for over 150 years. There are few amongst us whose lives have not been touched by the care and reassurance that nurses provide, every hour of the day, every day of the year. International Nurses Day is celebrated annually on the 12th May, coinciding with the celebration of the birth of Florence Nightingale, the founder of nursing. The theme of International Nurses Day 2020 is “Nurses a Voice to Lead: Nursing the World toHealth”. 2020 is particularly special as it also celebrates the 200th anniversary of the birth of Florence Nightingale. In addition, 2020 was declared as the Year of the Nurse and Midwife. Who knew this would be a year to remember! “No-one expected this theme to be so appropriate. Our Nurses throughout the world are at the forefront in providing the essential care required, working during difficult times and still managing to balance the care of their families whilst serving Humanity. COVID 19 has highlighted the Nursing Profession as one of Integrity, Ethical Standardsand Intellectual Acumen”, said Nursing Services Manager of Ahmed-Al-Kadi, Linda Lomax. “Now more than ever nurses around the globe working tirelessly to care for people who need it. Yet nurses do not always get the respect they deserve. There are often general misconceptions regarding the value of a nurse in aiding care to patients, it took a pandemic to change general public opinion. Nurses pledge their service to Humanity and I am so proud of our nurses as they abide by their oath, continuing with their daily actions. Unlike other professions, we have the ability to assist in the healing process,” added Lomax. “On this special day I want to honor to all nurses and also to thank you for the dedicated work you do every day to achieve good health and life for everyone and to celebrate YOU who are part of the backbone of our health system. Thanks to their care the patients are able to recover their health. It is amazing to see the great affection and above all the enormous patience with which nurses provide care to all our patients. It is my wish to send a special greeting to all nurses for their hard work in the interest of protecting the health of our population, by reaching out to help all our patients and especially for making our world friendlier to live, “said Ebrahim Asmal, Hospital Manager at Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital. When a nurse chose this career path, they committed by oath to provide their care, their passion, their commitment and their dedication to serve the primary healthcare needs for their patients. Young, old, tall or short. There is no discrimination. Just pure care. That is how a nurse sees their patient. During this pandemic, the nurse sacrifices themselves to care for others, many not having contact with their own family and loved ones due to the risk. That is care. That is nursing.