With the novel coronavirus showing no signs of slowing down, the show runners of the world renowned Vodacom Durban July have assured patrons that the race will go ahead but with no spectators. The race will take place as a broadcast-only event behind closed door, at the Greyville Racing Ground. Race sponsors Vodacom and show runners Gold Circle have confirmed a joint commitment to run Africa’s greatest horseracing event, but under the strictest adherence to all government health protocols surrounding Covid-19. Michel Nairac, Gold Circle CEO, said that they are looking at 25 July as the proposed racing day with the event broadcast live on most media platforms. “Gold Circle, together with the ongoing support of the company’s valued sponsor Vodacom, is fully committed to running the 2020 Vodacom Durban July. Sadly, given the reality of the present circumstances, the race meeting will be staged behind closed doors and without spectators,” Nairac said. The date is subject to change, depending on the spread of the pandemic. “The VDJ has enjoyed an uninterrupted history since first being run in 1897, not even two world wars prevented the race from being run and we are doing everything in our power to ensure that 2020 is not the exception,” Nairac added. Thousands of horse racing fans and betting enthusiasts are looking forward to the multimillion rand event. In 2019 the horse racing event paid out between R115 000 and R4.25 million in prize money. Around 50 000 people attended the event which combines racing, fashion and live entertainment. Michelle van Eyden, the executive head of sponsorship at Vodacom, said that any decision made surrounding the event will be done with safety in mind. “Any decision we make around the Vodacom Durban July this year will be made as a responsible company committed to the safety of all who are involved. As a sponsor, we will work together with all relevant stakeholders and be guided by the horseracing fraternity and the experts in this industry, as well as in government, as we all work towards making this year’s race a reality,” van Eyden said.