The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza has assured the family of Tongaat teenager, Andile “Bobo” Mchunu who was allegedly abducted and killed by six men, that they will get help and Police minister Bheki Cele has vowed that no stone will be left unturned in the murder case. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers on Tuesday, 12 May, Khoza said that they would be assisting the Mchunu family with trauma counselling. “The family is very traumatised at the moment and in need of assistance. We will provide social workers to help the family find closure after the traumatic experience,” she said. The six men accused of beating the 16-year-old matriculant to death, appeared briefly before the Verulam Magistrate’s Court yesterday afternoon. Mlungisi Thabathe, 28, Andile Nhleko, 27, Mncedisi Mzobe, 27, Siyanda Msweli, 26, Lindani Ndlovu, 22 and Malusi Mthembu, 27, were charged with kidnapping and murder after the human remains, believed to be of the teenager, were found in a bag by police at the Wewe River, on 8 May. The matter was remanded to 19 May for bail application. The accused did not plead to the counts. The provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker, confirmed that a seventh suspect who is the deceased teenager’s older cousin, was arrested on Saturday and was also charged with kidnapping and murder. It is unknown when the suspect would be appearing in court. The family is still awaiting the results of the postmortem. The crime is alleged to have taken place at the well-known Magagula Lodge in Hambanathi area and stemmed from an accusation of alcohol and money theft. On the night of 8 May, disgruntled residents gathered and burnt down the lodge and tavern belonging to one of the detained suspects. Zodwa Jali, the teenager’s aunt, welcomed the assistance by the department of Social Development. “This family needs counselling after the incident,” she said. Jali described the teenager as a promising young man who liked doing art work. She confirmed that the family wanted the DNA results. Meanwhile, Police minister Bheki Cele has vowed that no stone will be left unturned in Bobo’s murder case. Cele was speaking during his visit to the family accompanied by the provincial MEC for Community Safe, Liaison and Transport Bheki Ntuli, on Tuesday. The family claimed that the police failed to investigate the matter since the people who were seen beating the teenager were known from the area. After disappointments from the local police, the family took the matter to the provincial police. With help from provincial police, human remains, which is believed to be Bobo, were found in the Wewe River in Tongaat. Cele promised the family that he would do all in his power to bring closure to them. “We are going to ensure that the murderers rot in jail for such an evil deed. I am also disappointed that there’s alcohol involved in this issue. We thank the police officers who worked tirelessly to arrest the suspects,” he said. Cele assured the family that the local police station will be investigated for negligence. He said that he will report the outcomes of the investigation to the family in due time. He promised that the DNA results will be fast-tracked.