KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Premier Sihle Zikalala condemned the “care-free attitude” that has been displayed by some citizens of KZN, since the downgrading to lockdown Alert Level one. In a media briefing on Sunday, 25 October, Zikalala said that despite warnings about a second wave of infections and deaths, many people have “thrown all caution to the wind” and “gone back to their old ways.” He criticized those disobeying lock regulations. “In many instances, if you didn’t know, you’d swear there was no Covid-19 lurking; let alone the fact we are still under a National Lockdown. Looking at the statistics, we can now safely say that we are definitely going back into a hard lockdown – if there is no urgent and drastic change in behaviour,” said Zikalala. Zikalala warned that a second wave of Covid-19 will be “stronger and deadlier” in taking human lives as well as dealing the economy a major blow – which all citizens should be avoiding. He called upon the business community – particularly those who are in the food and hospitality sector – to ensure that there is strict adherence to Alert Level one Lockdown regulations. “There is no use in chasing profits today, only to be shut down by a hard lockdown tomorrow,” said Zikalala. The premier said that “Covid-19 is still alive and well” as the statistics show that the number of confirmed positive cases in the past two weeks have increased by 1720 cases. The overall provincial percentage change for Covid-19 cases for the past two weeks is an increase of 28 percent. The increase in the number of positive cases in the past 14 days occurred in nine districts, with just two observing a decline. These were uMkhanyakude and Zululand. Meanwhile, Harry Gwala District had the highest increase in the number of new cases provincially within the same period. Zikalala explained that the number of deaths (by date of death) has been declining with decrease in number of confirmed cases. However, due to delayed reporting of deaths in some instances, more deaths that occurred earlier in the pandemic are currently being reported. Furthermore, Zikalala warned liquor outlets owners who do not abide by the National Lockdown regulations and those people posting pictures of themselves without wearing masks that they will “face the music”. He said: “We are coming for them. Alcohol is usually a major contributing factor to road crashes, and other social ills such as gender-based-violence, which often turn fatal. Reckless trading in alcohol has the potential to derail the progress that we have made in preparing our healthcare systems for a potential onslaught of Covid-19.” Zikalala urged all citizens to adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols by wearing a face mask when venturing out in public; washing hands regularly with soap and water or hand sanitiser and maintaining a social distance of at least 1,5 metres. As of Monday, 26 October, the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in KZN is 122 263 and the number of deaths has increased to 3 193.