Rising tension between the uBumbano Lokuthula Organisation, the ward 10 Bergville community and the Okhahlamba municipality speaker Sthembiso Zulu, erupted in protest action on 12 October, with calls for the speaker to step down. Serious allegations of misconduct, rape and abuse were levelled against the speaker. The protest of about 100 people led by Dr. Andile Hlatshwayo, chairperson of the uBumbano Lokuthula Organisation marched to the main gates of the municipality. The protestors, armed with ‘knobkerries’ and steel rods, chanted and dared police to arrest them as they called for the speaker to step down. “We will not leave, until this man has stepped down,” shouted protestors. Newcastle and Bergville SAPS Public Order Policing (POP) and Public Safety officers were on hand to enforce law and order. On 8 October, uBumbano Lokuthula Organisation called for a complete shutdown of Bergville which led Okhahlamba Municipality to issue a statement on 9 October stating that they had received several public notices and information via social media about the illegal strike action planned for 12 October, in the Bergville town. “We have been inundated with queries from business owners and ratepayers regarding the notices. As a municipality we respect the rights of our citizens to protest as a means of expressing their dissatisfaction, provided all the relevant protocols have been adhered to, ” said Suraya Asmal, communications officer for Okhahlamba Municipality. Dr. Andile Hlatshwayo told the Ladysmith Herald that it is now time for the community to take a stand against what is wrong. “I have also prepared a memorandum, which will be handed to Bergville Police and municipal officials,” said Hlatshwayo. The memorandum alleged that the speaker committed acts of nepotism and influences the administration to do “whatever he pleases.” It was also alleged that the speaker influenced Bergville police to arrest and victimize the Ward 10 community. Other allegations made were regarding the R3 million that was given by small business enterprises to the municipality to oversee a “bee keeping project” which was funded in March 2019 and “to date nothing has been done about this,” read the memorandum. Hlatshwayo said that the intervention of the premier on the matter of the “pig project” which is taking place must be done as the Ward 10 community is displeased about how the project is being operated. “We also called upon the police to investigate the issues of people working on farms, who are being abused and tortured by white farmers. Nothing about this is being done, the police are protecting these white farmers,” said Hlatshwayo. Hlatshwayo alleged that the police are negligent in cases that are opened against white farmers and other cases. “We call for the HAWKS to investigate all the wrong doings here at Bergville,” he said. The memorandum was handed over to municipal officials who said that they will respond accordingly.