Residents of Overport blame cardboard collectors for contributing to water issues and pipe burst in the area. They claim, these collectors are responsible for the spewing of garbage all over the place as a result of their search for cardboards. Last week, Overport had a number of water issues which residents claim was a result of ailing infrastructure and others, pure negligence. Ethekwini Secure held a campaign together with Active Citizens Coalition (ACC) to eradicate illegal cardboard collection companies from Overport and Sydenham that are buying from cardboard collectors. Zain Soosiwala, spokesperson for Ethekwini Secure said that the problem has been there since 2017 and has again reared its ugly head. “Immediate intervention is now required to deal with the cardboard collection companies who are currently terrorising the areas of Overport and Sydenham with their callous and reprehensible behaviour. These companies are flagrantly disregarding the by-laws as well as traffic regulations, further they are the core reason the vagrancy issue has spiked, as they are rewarding vagrants for breaking the law by perpetuating a flawed system, so they may enrich themselves. There is a total disregard from these companies, who have little respect for the environment. The grime that is left in the wake of these trucks is the main cause for clogged drainage systems, this matter is also unsightly and has health implications for us all,” said Soosiwala Ward 31 councillor, Charmaine Clayton echoed Soosiwala’s sentiments saying that the cardboard collectors are vandalising the manholes in the area. “I have to agree with Soosiwala, however, it is not correct to say that its vagrants as some of the collectors are bread winners, mothers and fathers who just want to make a living. She said that as a councillor, the matter puts her in an awkward position as the community feels that she is responsible for fixing the damaged storm water drain covers which pose as a danger for pedestrians, especially at night and for children playing on the streets. “Apart from the open storm water drains being a danger, the cardboard also blocks our drains which causes sewer problems. Taking into consideration that once a manhole is open, it is easy for all of sorts of rubbish to block the drains like plastic bottles, polystyrene containers and more. All this is not biodegradable,” said Clayton. Clayton said that she understands the resident’s frustrations, however, she questioned how cardboard collecting can be stopped “I feel that as a councillor, there is only so much I can do, however, the municipality has more authority to put a stop to cardboard collection or come up with a feasible solution for both the collectors and the residents, who are the ratepayers,” Clayton said. Councillor Hassan Haniff said: “The street business of cardboard selling is of no benefit to the city. The wet cardboard is weighed on site and loaded onto the truck. The driver pays them the same time. The by-laws was supposed to be in place two years ago. By putting the by-laws in place makes it easy for DSW law enforcement and metro police to act on it.” Haniff said that it was unfortunate that the cardboard boys cannot be charged. “At present, we are charging the truck drivers up to R1000. Last I heard, the documents are in court awaiting for the judge to sign it and hopefully, it will be done soon. We clear one area they move to another area and create inconvenience for the pedestrians. Water and rubbish is all over the place. The hot spot areas are in front of Asherville grounds and Felix Dlamini Road at the bus stop. It is an ongoing problem and almost every week I have to call metro police to fine the drivers. Metro police hands are tied because there is no by-law in place on how to deal with this increasing problem,” said Haniff. Mantsidiseng Mpitsa, a 52-year-old mother from Mayville who collects in Overport and Sydenham said that she started collecting cardboard during lockdown as a means to feed her family after losing her job. “Before lockdown, I worked as a domestic worker. My cleaning job which is a three day job was halted and there was no other way of generating income to buy food at home. So I started collecting everyday and on a daily basis I was able to make at least R50 which is enough for bread and milk.” She said that having four unemployed children is not a joke and any extra income is needed. “My youngest child is still in school and with my cleaning job I am not able to pay her fees, buy uniform and stationary and food. My other three children hustle on the streets for peace jobs which is something I can never guarantee. As a mother, it is my responsibility to take care of them and cardboard collecting is making a difference,” Mapitsa said. She said that there are many other women cardboard collectors who share the same sentiments as her and if cardboard collecting was stopped their families would go hungry. “We open the drains so we can make more money because the more the cardboard weighs the more money we make,” Mpitsa said. Ethekwini Municipality was contacted for comment, however, at the time of print none was received.