The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) together with members of a church recently marched the streets of Inanda against gender-based violence which has become prevalent in various communities. Melasa Isaiah ACDP ward 49 chairperson and provincial public relations officer said that the party has been actively involved in the fight against gender-based violence in and around KZN as well as other provinces. “Together with the provincial leader MPL Archbishop DR SE Manqele, secretary general Pastor Buyie Dadla, and a few executive members, we visited the families of the six girls who were murdered in the Umthalume area to offer our condolences, prayers and support recently,” Isaiah said. She said that ACDP provincial chairperson councillor Jameel Essop, political researcher for KZN Mr Hlophe and herself also visited the Umlazi area to offer their support and prayers to the families who lost their loved ones including that of a woman who was shot and killed in her bed and the Mpungose family whose children were murdered by their father. Isaiah said that members have in recent weeks hosted prayer meetings in Phoenix and KZN in support of those who have lost loved ones to various types of crime and violence. “Gender-based violence is a serious issue in society and in an effort to put a stop to it, we are constantly engaging communities including rural areas, in gender-based violence awareness programmes. On a personal level, I’m always educating, empowering, counselling and reaching out to women with regard to gender-based violence and directing them to the relevant departments,” said Isaiah. She added: “We offer ongoing counselling and support to women and children in need of our assistance. Through the Women of Destiny NPO, we host empowerment and skills development programmes and events reaching out to all those in need irrespective of race or religion. Love conquers all odds and challenges, together we can fight this and one life lost is too many. Let’s protect our women and children.”