The public is encouraged to register for free music lessons that will run for two to four weeks in the Rydalvale, Phoenix area. The music lessons will be headed by music teacher Joshua Moodliar, who has over a decade of experience in teaching music. Moodliar said: “To see so many kids light up after learning to play an instrument, gives me the greatest fulfilment any one could ever receive. Imagine the tears in your eyes, as you see your child walk up to the stage with so much of confidence, as they begin to perform, the lights dim, the piano plays and they sound as sweet as an angel. I used to think that music was for the special few, until we saw these kids perform. The way it brought goosebumps, I remember so clearly, I was left in tears.” He said that he used music to help him cope with the tragic loss of his elder brother as a teenager. “When I was 15-years-old, my eldest brother past away and I used music to keep my head above the waters. It was when I was a kid that he invested his time into teaching us music and I am so grateful that he did because music helped me get through losing him. Because of this, I made it my mission to help other young people learn how to play music by teaching music in our community free of charge,” said Moodliar. He said that the relaxation from the piano, the freedom from the guitar, the joy from singing and the relief in drumming is one of the greatest gifts a parent can give their child. “I hope that you as a parent or grandparent can give this to your child, giving them an opportunity to shine bright, build confidence, perform on stage and sing to the world. I am so passionate to see young kids embrace their sound and I truly believe that there is an abundance of gold hidden inside of our kids, but it is time that we move towards bringing this out,” Moodliar said. He encouraged anyone above the age of five-years-old (both children and adults) to register for the free music lessons. “The lessons will take place at 50 Rydalvale Drive, Rydalvale, Phoenix on either weekdays or weekends. There is no start date but you will need to apply before the end of October to join this initiative. Space is limited and interested people are urged to apply by calling 081 263 9282 to book a space,” added Moodliar.