Residents from Phoenix and the surrounding townships who come to the Phoenix Post Office for the R350 Covid-19 relief grant said the extremely long queues were becoming unbearable each day. Maintaining social distancing between residents was difficult as the long queue at times start from the entrance of the post office going all the way down to the Starwood Spar opposite the Acropolis Mall in Phoenix. Resident Kyle Pillay said that hundreds of people make their way to the Post Office every day in the hopes of getting the R350 relief grant. “People are here from the early hours of the morning with some even sleeping overnight to receive the grant but the service is extremely slow resulting in many people being sent home and told to return the next day. This is my third day, I’ve been coming here at 4am in the morning for the past three days yet I still haven’t received any help. Even though I’m here bright and early, I still spend most of the day waiting in the long queue only to be told in the afternoon that the post office is closing and we should come back the next day. Today they said the system is down, I don’t know if I will be attended to or would have to come back again tomorrow,” said Pillay. Sphamandla Hlophe from KwaMashu said that just like everyone else, he looks forward to getting the R350 relief grant every month but waiting in the long queues for many days was becoming unbearable. “It’s not fair for us to wait the entire day only to be sent home and told to come back the next day. We are unemployed and depend on the grant for survival, where are we supposed to get money to travel everyday when we are not getting the grant in the first place. If we didn’t need this grant, we wouldn’t be coming here every single day but we are desperate so we will keep coming back until we get it,” said Hlophe. “I also wish there was some sort of order, some people arrive here and jump queues saying their friends and family members were standing in the queue for them, so they get here and are suddenly in the front of the queue which is unfair for those who are here from the early hours of the morning,” Hlophe added. Nosipho Ntuli from Inanda, said that she had used her last travelling money to come collect the grant. “If I don’t get the grant today, I don’t know how I will come back tomorrow as I am out of travelling money. I desperately need this grant to buy a few groceries for my family as no one at home is employed and for some reason my brother’s application was not approved. So everyone is dependent on my grant.” Johan Kruger SA Post Office spokesperson said: “The SA Post Office would like to render the best possible service to its customers and apologises for the problems that Phoenix residents have had when they collect their R350 Sassa grants. Sassa deals with applications for the R350 Covid relief grant and sends the applicant an SMS when the application was successful. Sassa then later sends the applicant a second SMS once the grant has been paid into their temporary account.” “The applicant should visit their local post office once they receive the second SMS. The Post Office also uses these SMSes to estimate how much cash each branch should order for the day. Large numbers of applicants go to their local post office after receiving the first SMS. The majority leave empty handed because their grant has not yet been paid in, but in some instances the grant was actually paid over before the second SMS was sent. These beneficiaries do receive their grant, which depletes the cash reserves for the day. The Post Office therefore asks all applicants to visit their post office only once they have received the second SMS,” said Kruger. Kruger added: “The Post Office is upgrading its national IT network to eliminate downtime. This project was delayed by the Covid-19 lockdown, but the plan is to complete it before the year end. The Phoenix outlet is sufficiently staffed; the Mt Edgecombe branch recently burnt down and all staff from that office have been allocated to Phoenix. Further more beneficiaries do not always go the designated branch and that can also impact on high volumes at selected branches. South Africans who receive the R350 Covid-19 relief grant can arrange with Sassa to have it paid into their bank account or through the Post Office.” 