It has been almost a year since Durban artist Nanda Soobben has been fighting for payment for work done ahead of the United Cities and Local Government (UCLG) Congress World Summit, held in Durban in November last year. Soobben was approached by African Centre for the Constructive Resolution of Disputes to paint the historical ‘prison wall’ mural located near Durban’s ICC. According to the Durban Artist the brief was initially to paint the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals represented by 17 detailed butterfly artworks, but this brief later developed into re-imagining a national and international human rights wall.
Soobben said: “I was happy to be involved because of my commitment to human rights, and the relationship between the arts and freedom.” He said that he was assured that seed funding was available for this project, and that more funding would become available as the wall progressed – given the importance of this wall, his expertise as an artist who painted murals in Brazil, and the amount of work it would take to first prepare the crumbling and cracked wall, and then paint conceptualised artwork – for both locals and tourists to appreciate. Soobben contracted a group to do the preparation work. However, payment for preparation did not happen. Shabnam Palesa Mohamed, manager of Soobben’s Art College, the Centre for Fine Art, Animation and Design, said: “Efforts to appeal to the conscience of the stakeholders were mostly ignored. Nobody wants to take responsibility, leaving artists and renovation workers in the lurch and out of pocket. This is a true reflection of the respect there is for artists and workers, who due to the Covid-19 lockdown, struggle to survive without progressive support. Creative and culture industries in South Africa are in deep trouble without compassionate and courageous leadership, committed to CCI’s.” The South African Cultural Observatory conducted an early and detailed assessment of the impact of Covid-19 on the Creative and Cultural Industries. Their study showed an economic impact on the total output of the Covid-19 shutdown on the CCIs is to be R53,3 billion. The sector’s almost total shutdown is expected to reduce South Africa’s GDP (direct and indirect impact) by R99,7 billion in 2020. This year, the CFAD met with other community artists, with whom they agreed to work as a collective on this mural project. Soobben said: “This is the best way for the new human rights mural to be created, 26 years after democracy, and in the spirit of Ubuntu. We need more murals in our city, and our country’s artists need authentic support.” There is no clear idea when this will happen. A drive past the ICC area shows the once-faded mural looking blank and bare, except for graffiti.” Attempts to get comments regarding the contract from the pairing of the wall from eThekwini Parks Recreation and Culture Department were made and a response saying that the artist concerned needs to furnish the department with all the relevant documents pertaining to his appointment and contractual obligation with the City was needed so that the matter could be addressed. Snothi Thabethe, director of the Durban Local History Museums said: “As it stands I do not know as to who contracted the artist and what the terms of his appointment were. Once we get those details then we will be in a position to respond,” said Thabethe. Advocate Vasu Gounden, founder and executive director of Accord also sent an email to Soobben confirming that he was allocated the project, However said that it was indicated from onset that no funding was available for the project. The email read: “We invited Nanda Soobben to partner with us to paint the UN SDG Butterflies on the Human Rights wall and the ICC wall.We indicated from the outset to Soobben that no funding was available for the project.The City (Arts and Culture) gave permission for the wall to be painted and as far as I am aware, although they were enthusiastic and supportive of the project, it was not clear which department (International Relations or Arts and Culture) would  fund the project should a decision have been made by the City to fund the project. As far as I am aware no such decision to fund the project was made.
The ICC agreed to make their wall available for the painting of the SDG Butterflies and I am given to understand that the ICC paid CFAD R30 000.00 for this project which is partially complete and which Soobben agreed to complete,” said Gounden. He said that the artist is a committed and dedicated artist who they supported to get exposure with the United Nations and they will continue to work with him. The Springfield Weekly Gazette was directed to Eric Apelgren from Ethekwini Municipality who allegedly had more information with regards to the project and how funding would be acquired. He confirmed that he was part of the meeting between the stakeholders, however, was left out when the process of funding proceeded. He requested that he be given time to get an update from the relevant department before giving an official comment. Apelgren then sent an email to The Springfield Weekly Gazette stating that the Ethekwini park department will be giving a response on behalf of the municipality, however, no reponse was given at the time of going to print. This situation has left Soobben and the institution in a very bad state as funds to run the academy were used to pay contractors who prepared the wall before the work could start. “Activities at the Campus have since been halted. Initially the project was going to cost over R3 million and considering some factors we then agreed to do it for R100 000. I had promised the students payments as well which I ended up paying them half the promised amount. “What is really troubling is that Eric Apelgren told me at a meeting held at the Hilton Hotel that the institution had to be registered on their database, which was done and to date no payment has funds have been received,” Soobben said. He said that due to financial constraint he is left with no choice but to take the matter up with his lawyers.