Residents of Sim Place and other informal settlements within ward 34 went on the rampage and barricaded Umhlangane Road, Riverhorse Valley and Queen Nandi Drive with stones and rubble on Friday, 16 October. Residents claim ward 34 councillor, Dr Bobby Maharajh is not living up to his responsibilities as the ward councillor. The angry mob submitted a memorandum of demands where provision of access to clean water and adequate housing was top on the list. They said what angered them most, is the demolishing of the two houses by eThekwini Municipality’s Land Invasion Unit at Sim Place on Thursday. They said that they have been long waiting for the councillor to adhere to their complains. Leon Bennet, a member of the community who took part in the protest said that what angered the residents is the lack of communication between the residents and the councillor. He claims that Dr Maharajh has been ignorant and avoiding to answer questions that the residents have been asking for which is to why their homes were destroyed. “We decided to not sleep but to wake up and block all roads of ward 34 with burning tyres and shrubs to voice out our grievances. “The shacks that were destroyed had families which include children living there, those people have no idea where are they going to stay,” said Bennet. “We have tried to rebuild the shacks that were destroyed by the municipality, however, some of them still needs to be built because they have electricity box which can became very dangerous if in contact with the rain,” he added. Sakhile Thabede community activist said: “On Thursday, city’s land invasion destroyed two shacks that were occupied and did not serve any notice for this doing. They also threatened to destroy more shacks of which these homes have been here for more than 20 years. That angered the residents which made them take this to the streets and blocked the roads.” Thabede said that they do acknowledge that they are informal residents, however, they have human basic rights and the right to shelter. “If these guys threaten to destroy these homes where are we supposed to live? We are giving the ward councillor 14 days to answer to the questions that we have drafted on the memorandum of demands,” added Thabede. Thabede said that they are tired of being overlooked by the municipality when it comes to tenders. “We have the expertise and are also capable to do the work so, we do not understand as to why our councillor would rather employ people who are not residents. These people come from as far as Inanda, KwaMashu, Ntuzuma and Waterloo,” Thabede said.In response, ward 34 councillor Dr Bobby Maharajh said: “I was in the middle of a meeting on Thursday evening when I was called to come and address an angry mob. When I got to Sim Place, I noticed a huge blaze of fire and I was told by the area committee member Thabede to avail myself on Friday because they wanted to hand over their memorandum of demands. I did not have answers for the residents because I still have to look at their demands that they have drafted on the memorandum and set up a meeting with them. I will be, however, submitting this to the eThekwini Mayor for answers.” Msawakhe Mayisela said that the city has the responsibility to clamp down on land grabs, however, they do not demolish shacks that are occupied but rather shacks that are partially built or that are being built. “Under no circumstances shall we accomplish our operations out of the parameters of the law. With regard to the awarding to the tenders and employment, the City at all times ensures that every resident has an equal opportunity provided that they qualify. “Residents who have evidence of or who feel that they have been treated unfairly, our doors are always open for engagement. The city would like to appeal to all its residents to refrain on embarking on violence and delivery protests as this is neither helping, the city or the residents,” he said. Mayisela urged the residents to make it a norm that in the event if they have anything they are disgruntled about, to resort to dialogue.