Thousands of South Africans gave their lives in the first and second world wars, but the contributions of many, particularly black servicemen have never been fully acknowledged. Some of the lives lost are not remembered by name in war cemeteries or on memorials, and their contribution to wars that have shaped the times in which we live today, have been largely forgotten. What sets them further apart is that they were not permitted to bear arms. Despite their roles which were limited to providing mostly labour services to commonwealth forces many rose above these humble roles and served the country with great honour. Dr George Hay, Commonwealth War Graves Commission’s (CWGC) official historian said: “Many South Africans find it difficult to commemorate the two World Wars, but this could be because they do not realise how many South Africans of colour contributed to war efforts. Many of them distinguished themselves through their service and it is time to acknowledge that.” Juan Maree,CWGC South Africa managing director said: “South Africans of all races must be able to come together at the grave sites and memorials in our country to honour the men and women who served our country in conflict. Enshrining their memory and ensuring their place in our rich and diverse heritage has become a major challenge that has been taken up anew in recent years.” Maree said that South Africa’s major military museum, that has been renamed the Ditsong (culture) Museum of Military History previously dedicated to white heroes, now includes exhibits commemorating men like Job Maseko who single-handedly blew up a German ship and Lucas Majozi who received a Distinguished Conduct medal for bravery. “These men were deployed as stretcher-bearers in World War Two and were imprisoned by German forces in Egypt. The scope of the museum has also been extended to other armed conflicts with the inclusion of an exhibit on Umkhonto We Sizwe, the military arm of the ANC,” he said. He added that a process is also underway to identify other servicemen and women from across the Commonwealth who are not yet commemorated in cemeteries or on memorials by name. “The CWGC maintains 23,463  South African graves and memorial sites and also in places as far afield as Europe and the Far East. We continue to search for the names of those who are “missing” so that they might be remembered in perpetuity alongside all the other commonwealth dead of the two world wars.” Hay added that CWGC believes that all those from across the commonwealth who gave their lives in the pursuit of peace in the two world wars must be recognised, whatever their race, background or the nature of their service. “War memorials and cemeteries are permanent reminders of the sacrifices made by the men and women who shaped our world.” Maree highlighted the importance of educating future generations. “We want to encourage future and current generations to discover more about the CWGC and cherish the legacy of those who gave their today for our tomorrow. CWGC War Graves and Memorials serve as a permanent reminder of the sheer human cost of war. A visit to our war graves shows the harsh realities of war. We can all learn a lot from visiting them.”