With the recent shift to Covid-19 national lockdown Alert Level 1, the University of KwaZulu-Natal said it will be inviting all of its students to return to campus within the existing Covid-19 protocols. Acting executive director of corporate relations, Normah Zondo said that the students will still have to adhere to protocols of physical distancing, sanitising and restrictions on large gatherings as well as residence capacity constraints. “Safety and protection of staff and students remain paramount as the virus is still active within the country. UKZN has gone to considerable lengths to ensure the health and safety of those who have been permitted to return to campus over the past several months, including those whose degrees depend on laboratory and clinical work and we are confident that an expansion of these measures will also serve the entire UKZN community upon its return to our campuses,” said Zondo She said that there are principles that apply which include that of staff members who have underlying health conditions and those who are 60 years or older having to continue to work from home. “Visits to campus by these staff members should only occur under exceptional circumstances and under strict precautionary health measures. The provision is temporary pending the review by the management. Online learning will be the primary mode of learning and teaching for the remainder of the 2020 academic year, with the exception of controlled laboratory/practical sessions. There will be no contact lectures during semester 2 of 2020, and continuous assessment will still prevail in the majority of modules,” Zondo emphasised. She said that students are encouraged to continue to study from home, where possible and will be invited to return to campus following the same process that applied at previous levels. ” An invitation is however not an obligation to return. All colleges and divisions will have a presence on campus by rotation of staff and a permit to access campus and a green report on the Covid-19 self-screening will still be required for any student or staff member who needs to be on campus for legitimate reasons. “The Spring Graduation Ceremony on 30 October will be a virtual and registrations for the 2021 academic registration will be done online for all students, including all academic, curriculum and personal counselling required prior to registration as well as obtaining financial clearance,” said Zondo. She said that all students and staff are strongly encouraged to maintain current health precautions and adhere strictly to the Covid-19 protocols as more sectors of the economy are opened. “Everyone will be inconvenienced to some degree, and we will all need to demonstrate the highest level of social solidarity and patience. We can make this work only if everyone of us is committed to ensuring our mutual health and safety,” Zondo said.