Westville singing sensation, Risa Moodley did South Africa proud after she was chosen to sing the title track song in the trailer of an American movie, ‘The Switch Up’ which was released on 1 October. Two years ago, Moodley was selected to be a part of an American movie production which she was unable to continue with due to her being in matric. A short while after, she started working on another movie production entitled ‘The Switch Up.’ Moodley who has wowed the community, over the years with her melodious voice said the process of composing this title track was hard-work and a process. She said: “It required many sleepless nights and back and forth communication between me and the producer and founder of Global Image Talent Agency, Maria Whatley. This title track is a light fusion of Western pop music and Indian classical music. It has many Indian classical elements that are fused with hip hop, rap and English lyrics. The song was co-written by me and Whatley. It was musically composed by another South African citizen, Avish Ramkissoon and Whatley.” The 19-year-old started her singing career at the tender age of six. She performed at umpteen community events in Chatsworth and surrounding areas. Moodley sings in five languages and has also performed on stages with famous Bollywood singers. She has released eight CD’s and performed four original songs. Her accolades include, ‘Outstanding Achievement for an External Cultural Activity’ award from Westville Girls
High School. She holds an international award from IPop in Las Vegas with nine call back interviews, a certificate of honours endorsed by renowned playback singer, Anup Jalota
and an award from the Multicultural Academy of SA. Moodley bootcamped in a training session with James Lugo, international celebrity voice trainer in Los Angeles in 2018. As an ambassador, Moodley was selected to present awards at international presentation of performers in the United States of America. She said: “I am a music student at the University of KwaZulu Natal and on the Eastern side I am studying Sungeet Bhushan Part 3 with a syllabus from University Pracheen Kala Kendra in Chandigarth. My tutor is Gurujee Monaliji Shome of Drisha Music Academy (DMA).”