Westville Girls’ High School pupil, Danielle Visser is all about giving and lending a helping hand to the people who need it as she journeys through her modelling career and charity drives. Apart from the charity work that is fuelled by her seven-year-old modelling career, the multi-talented Visser, 17, is also an athlete. She has represented South Africa in Russia after making it to the Protea team and is currently training for the final of the Africa Cup. “I love what I do because I get to meet new people and do some really nice fashion shows. I recently did a really great virtual show for the Durban July. My really big shows were the Miss KZN 2019, Miss Ambassador KZN 2019/ 2020, and first Princess in the International Junior Miss South Africa 2020,” said Visser. She said that charity work was instilled in her by her father when he would take her to places where they helped feed people. “He would always tell me to see what I have while other children have nothing. Then over the years, I used to help friends with charity work and church where we were feeding on Sundays. Then my mom and her best friend helped feed people on the street where we would make food and look for people who really need it,” she said. Visser has also won Miss KZN and was part of princess day at her school where she made a day special for 750 children. “The kids get to feel and dress like a princess, it was really awesome to be part of the programme, and I could have never done it on my own. Shortly after that, we had lunch with some street kids that got to dance on a stage, and gave us a show that was really great,” she said. Visser is currently working with Christine Hemming from Once Upon a Time Charity Shop. “I got involved with the Once Upon A Time charity, because they desperately need funds and resources. I also wanted to be able to make a difference like how I was raised. Through Once Upon A Time I am able to do that,” she said. Through the charity shop, Visser got involved in other charities that get funding through Once Upon A Time. “I had an interest in baby houses, so I went to visit and saw first hand how much work it takes to look after all those babies. I have a big weakness for animals and I was so disappointed to learn that our baby houses and animals are so desperate. I put up an advertisement two weeks ago asking for help, and it reached out to no one in Durban, not a single bag of cat or dog food or baby milk was donated. Fortunately, I found a man from Johannesburg who was kind enough to send me two big boxes of things to sell,” said Visser. She said that she wishes to do morefor Once Upon A Time as Hemming works hard to help support all the other charity shops that are in desperate need right now. Proud mother, Sylvia Ravenscroft said that it has been a marvel watching her daughter take part in these wonderful programmes. “Visser is doing really well at school and in modelling, making the SA team in rock climbing representing South Africa in Russia, and now training for the Africa cup. Then going for the She is Fabulous Woman’s Awards where she made the top 10 (community builder). I am a really really proud mommy,” said Ravenscroft.