The KZN Women in Business recently celebrated its 25th birthday making them the longest standing business women’s organisation. In their 25th year, they have chosen the Durban and Coast SPCA to be their 2020 charity beneficiary. The 25-year-old non profit organisation offers emotional and business support to women seeking personal and business growth. Apart from empowering women in business, KZNWIB elects a charity following a nomination and voting process open to all members, and the Durban and Coast SPCA was elected for their 2020 donation. All profits made during the financial year will be donated to them. Senta Duffield, KZNWIB chairperson said: “It has been a very difficult year
for the Durban and Coast SPCA, especially during level 5 lockdown and we have tried to help them as much as we can with exposure and raising funds.” Their 25th anniversary was celebrated at the Westville B&B, with just Duffield as the chairperson, past chairs, and the current committee. Duffield said that they had planned to have a big celebration in October, however, with Covid-19 restrictions, they had to postpone for the safety and comfort of their members. “Over the years, KZNWIB has grown and developed, has acted as a support structure for many women in a variety of business sectors, fostered a number of entrepreneurs, supported numerous local charities and has been a successful networking forum for all its members, from the small business owner to the corporate CEO,” said Duffield. The organisation works to promote and foster the recognition of women in business and to serve as a forum which encourages discussions, exchange of knowledge and building relationships between businesswomen. “We promote the interests of our members and encourage women to develop themselves in the business arena,” Duffield said. They usually host monthly networking events and workshops, with renowned guest speakers and presenters, and offer various other forms of assistance and support for their members. “It is an honour to serve this incredible organisation and its members and we remain committed to continuing our 25 year legacy of connecting, supporting and encouraging women in business,” said Duffield.