A 35-year-old Chatsworth woman was due to appear in court yesterday charged with the murder of Pinetown businessman Dhunpall Rajkumar. Rajkumar, 53, went missing last week and his body was discovered in an abandoned building in Bellair, on 15 October. His family had reported him missing on 14 October and sent out a social media alert after he failed to return home. The family also contacted private security company, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), to assist in the search for the missing man.
Prem Balram, Rusa spokesperson, said that Rajkumar ran a truck for hire business and on the day of his disappearance he was expected to meet a customer outside the Bellair police station, but failed to show. Balram said that after Rajkumar failed to return home his family made enquiries and obtained CCTV footage which showed someone other than him driving the truck. “His cellphone was switched on and rang without answer. The truck was recovered at a property in Chatsworth yesterday. A search party consisting of family and members of the community was formulated. The search resulted in Rajkumar’s body being discovered in an abandoned building in Bellair,” Balram said. Police said that Rajkumar’s truck was found abandoned in Chatsworth. Captain Nqobile Gwala, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said that on the following day at 7.30am, Rajkumar lifeless body was found in an abandoned house at Mount Vernon Road in Bellair. “His hands and legs were tied with cable ties. He also sustained bruises on his face. A case of murder was opened for investigation at Bellair SAPS. Detectives from Bellair worked tirelessly to follow all possible leads about the suspect involved in the murder. They managed to trace and arrest a 35-year-old suspect in Chatsworth on Friday, 16 October. She is expected to appear before the Durban Magistrate’s Court,” Gwala said.
Several attempts made to contact the family proved unsuccessful due to them being in court. At the time of going to print, the accused had not appeared in court as yet and updates will follow in the next edition of the Chatsworth Tabloid.