In an effort to combat the spread of the novel Covid-19 virus, the Willowton Group and Pick ‘n Pay School Club have once again resumed delivering donations of soap bars to schools across the province. Some of the schools that received the donation in Phoenix include Clayridge Primary, Olympia Primary, Wembley Primary and Woodview Primary schools. Deon Calthorpe, sales and marketing executive at Willowton Group said: “Although lockdown regulations have been eased and more and more pupils are now returning to school, our president has urged us not to become complacent. “Touching surfaces with one’s hands remains a way of transmitting this virus and we need to continue educating young South Africans about the importance of washing their hands. Soap and water will not only keep this virus in check but help to eradicate it from our shores.” Willowton Group has provided the soap while Pick ‘n Pay School Club has ensured that the bars reach schools and vulnerable pupils through its network of over 3 000 schools across the country. Just eleven days before the hard lockdown in March, 370,074 soaps reached classrooms across the country before schools closed. Deliveries resumed in August and the remaining bars of soaps will reach pupils by the end of October.”Since the second wave of deliveries resumed at the end of July, the bars of soap were sent to various schools. Certain Pick ‘n Pay stores also handed soap bars out to pensioners. The partners are currently in the process of distributing the remaining bars of soap. By the time this project ends in October, over 750 000 bars of soap worth around R5 million will have been supplied to young learners across the country,” said Calthorpe.
He added: “The vision is for over 400 schools to receive a bar of soap for each pupil. The focus is to reach schools and frail care centres in KwaZulu Natal, schools in the Western Cape and selective schools in Gauteng.” Suzanne Ackerman-Berman, transformation director at Pick ‘n Pay said their School Club was the perfect way to distribute the hundreds of bars of soap donated by Willowton. “Our School Club works closely with local communities and helps us reach more than 2 million pupils annually with curriculum-aligned education material to support the pupil’s development. “During the lockdown, we have intensified this support by providing food parcels and basic hygiene products. Through this partnership with Willowton, we will reach over 750 000 children and have helped reinforce that good hand hygiene habits are a key ingredient in fighting the spread of this virus,” said Ackerman-Berman.