A fire in the Reservoir Hills Informal Settlement destroyed more than 400 homes and left over 1000 shack-dwellers homeless and destitute, on Sunday, 25 October. The cause of the fire is unknown, however, allegations are that a couple living together in one of the shacks had an argument and in the afternoon the woman was seen going in to the shack and leaving immediately while the man was seen drinking beers at a nearby tavern. A resident who chose to remain anonymous said that the fire broke out at around 10pm and engulfed the entire area. Most of the affected residents, adults and children lost almost everything from identity documents, Sassa cards, food, medication and clothing. Councillor Xolani Nala together with the PR councillor, Sagar Singh were the first to arrive at the scene. Singh said that calls were made to the relevant stakeholders for relief and in the morning the eThekwini Municipality sent out a team from disaster management department to assist with taking down a list of affected residents. The Springfield Weekly Gazette also visited the informal settlement to speak to the residents and a member of the ward committee, Nonkululeko Mthiya said: “I was asleep when the fire started. I just heard people screaming and I woke up fast and told my child to evacuate the house. I do not know how it started, however it started in one of the shacks on the lower section,” said Mthiya. She said the blazing inferno was too much and a lot of houses were damaged including three tuckshops. “As far as I know there were no fatalities, however one man was burnt and he was taken to the hospital,” Mthiya said. A pensioner, Qulelwa Yalo who is in her 80’s and lives alone said that her feet were aching from running around seeking help after her entire home burnt down. Yalo said: “I lost everything, my Sassa card, food and clothes. I am only left with what I am wearing now. My biggest stress is that its almost time for me to go collect my Sassa grant of which is my only source of income. I won’t be able to get my money and I do not know how I am going to survive. My neighbour Baba Qhawe woke me up telling me I should get out before my house burnt,” said Yalo. Jabulile Mgozi, an elderly lady living with her husband, two daughters and two grandchildren said she doesn’t even know where to begin. “I lost everything, my ID, my daughters certificates, cash, everything. The worst of all is that my daughters are still job hunting and their cellphones were also engulfed in the fire,” said Mgozi. Mgozi also owned one of the tuckshops and all her stock got burnt. Gogo Madlamini, a partially sighted 80-year-old said she was fortunate to get her Sassa card and ID before evacuating her house, however, all her other belongings were scorched. Ethekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said: ” Our teams were onsite finalising and verifying the numbers affected since the tragic incident. 412 dwellings were affected and fortunately no fatalities were reported. NGO’s are providing meals and will continue for the next few weeks,” said Mayisela. He said that a report is being compiled for circulation to stakeholders and thereafter the supply of building material will be fast tracked.