High flying karateka, Jocelyn Kaylie Pillay is not a girl to be messed with. At just 14-years-old, the Esselen Crescent resident will soon grade to 1st Dan black belt (shodan). Pillay’s love for karate began almost ten years ago, at the tender age of five. She trains under the banner of Pesco Karate Club under the watchful eye of Sensei Raj Govender. “I basically grew up with karate, I am currently on my last brown belt, soon to be black belt which is going to be one of my biggest achievements in life. My parents introduced me to karate for the purpose of discipline and self-defence but once I started, I knew that karate is what I wanted to do and excel in, there was no turning back, I simply loved it,” said Pillay. Over the years, Pillay has excelled in various local and international tournaments and received a host of accolades for her outstanding achievements. Her most precious award is the ‘Student of The Year’ award which she received in two consecutive years. “Through karate, I was able to learn self-defence techniques and discipline. The sport has changed my life and motivates me every single day. When I excel in karate, it sets a pace for me, I feel good and want to work harder in other aspects of my life. I look forward to reaching greater heights in the field of karate,” said Pillay. Pillay trains twice a week at the Pesco Karate Club Sunford Dojo and expressed that she has made such good friendships there. “Our training is like no other dojo, we all take our training very seriously but we also have a lot of fun together. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the students weren’t able to train together for six months and even though I trained almost every day at home, it sure wasn’t the same as training with my sensei and the other students. I’m really glad to be back at training with everyone else,” she said. Pillay said that it is fun when people find out about her sharp karate skills especially the boys because they are intimidated by her. She encourages other girls to try karate and not be intimidated by the sport. She thanked her very experienced instructor and mentor, Sensei Raj Govender for teaching her everything she knows about the sport and her parents for supporting her and making sure that she’s punctual and never misses a lesson. Her instructor, Sensei Raj Govender has over 40 years of experience in karate. Sensei Govender has studied various styles in karate under various grandmasters from around the globe. He is a KSA referee and has refereed provincial, national and international tournaments over the years. “When Jocelyn started with me, she was a petite little girl who fell in love with karate from her very first lesson. She attended every training lesson and has been excelling ever since. She currently helps me with instructing in my class as she’s now a senior belt. She is an absolute high achiever, always striving for excellence and I have utmost respect for her,” said Sensei Govender. Sensei Govender encouraged parents to get their children involved in karate. “Karate helps our children to concentrate, instills discipline and keeps them away from drugs and other illegal activities,” he said. For more information on karate classes, contact Sensei Raj Govender on 083 789 3012.