A 34-year-old man who was arrested after he allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted a 12-year-old girl remains in custody after being denied bail at Verulam Magistrate’s Court recently. The suspect who was on the run after the incident was tracked down and apprehended by members of a security company Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) in Hattingspruit near Dundee, north of KwaZulu-Natal. It is alleged that on 1 September, the suspect ran away with the victim who is a neighbour. The accused was arrested for kidnapping and raping the primary school pupil after she was rescued in Richards Bay, hours before her 13th birthday on 2 September. Captain Nqobile Gwala, provincial police spokesperson, said that the the 34-year-old suspect was arrested in Dundee where he was hiding out after fleeing from his home. “He appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court and the case was remanded to 7 October for bail application. The suspect will remain in custody at Westville prison in Durban until his next court appearance.” Prem Balram of Rusa, said that the victim’s family approached them on the morning of 1 September, seeking assistance after they noticed their daughter and neighbour had gone missing. “The parents realised that her bag and clothes were taken from their home. They immediately approached the home of their neighbour for assistance,” he said. The suspect’s wife confirmed that her husband’s clothes and belongings were also missing. “We received intelligence of a possible sighting of the girl and the suspect in the Richards Bay area, in northern KwaZulu-Natal. The accused and victim were located at a home in Brackenham. They were found in the company of the suspect’s extended family,” he said. Balram said that the members then transported them back to Cornubia and reunited the child with her family. He said that the suspect was released by members after the victim stated that he did not touch her, nor did they engage in any sexual activity.
“The victim told our members that they had both absconded to celebrate her 13th birthday because of the verbal abuse at her home. An hour later, Rusa and the police were called to the victim’s home after she informed her family that she was in fact raped at the residence in Brackenham,” said Balam. He said that the victim further informed her family that she had engaged in sexual activity with the suspect at her residence prior to them absconding. A case of statutory rape and kidnapping was opened and the girl was sent for a medical examination to confirm the allegations against the suspect. Balram said: “The medical report confirmed that the girl had been penetrated. The suspect fled his home, allegedly in an attempt to evade an arrest after hearing that the child had undergone medical examinations.”