“We want justice for Salesh. His murderers must be caught and punished.” These were the heartfelt words from a grieving father who had to bid farewell to his son after he was stabbed to death by fleeing robbers in Quintham Place, Westham, in the early hours of Wednesday morning. 25-year-old Salesh Premlall’s future was snuffed out in the blink of an eye leaving him fatally stabbed when he joined his brother in the pursuit of fleeing suspects from his neighbour’s property in Westham, during the early hours of the morning after hearing gunshots. He attempted to apprehend robbery suspects on Quintham Place but instead was brutally stabbed and died on the side of the road. Roopesh Premall, Salesh’s heartbroken father, said that his son died a senseless death but will be remembered for the hero that he was. “We will strive for justice. We are still trying to process my son’s death. He was a gem and a treasure. This loss is unbearable,” Premlall said. Members of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) arrived on scene at approximately 1:33am and found the man lying on the roadside. Prem Balram, Rusa head said that the victim sustained a single stab wound to his chest. “Medics assessed the victim and found that he showed no signs of life. It was established that the deceased had arrived home from work and was watching television when he heard gunshots. Upon investigation, he noticed two suspects fleeing from his neighbour’s property. The call centre employee and his brother pursued the suspects on foot,” Balram said. He said that at one stage, the deceased managed to apprehend one of the suspects who drew either a knife or a screwdriver and stabbed him. “The suspect then fled leaving the fatally injured man on the ground,” said Balram. Captain Louise Naidoo, Phoenix SAPS communications officer confirmed that a murder investigation is underway. “It is alleged that Sergeant Nala and Constable Mtshali were on duty patrolling at Westham area when they heard a gunshot coming from Ivenham Road. The police members drove towards that direction and they found a man lying down on the side of the road at the corners of Ivenham and Quintham Place. “The man was found with a stab wound on the left of his chest and scratches on his fore head. He was identified as Salesh Premlall,” Naidoo said. She added that an ambulance was called to attend to the victim however, he was declared deceased by paramedics. “No arrests have been made. Investigations are ongoing,” Naidoo said. Balram said: “Sadly, his Good Samaritan deed cost him his life. We urge community members to call the authorities or security service providers when suspects are spotted. Criminals are often armed and ruthless. They are not averse to taking a life or causing serious injury when they are caught out. We extend our condolences to the bereaved family during this difficult time.” Candace Chetty, Salesh’s cousin, said he proposed to the love of his life on 4 October and was eagerly preparing for their wedding scheduled for November 2021. “Salesh was jovial. He had a heart for people. It is not shocking that he went to the assistance of his neighbours in an attempt to apprehend the fleeing suspects. That’s the kind of person he was. Always ready to help. He loved being surrounded by family and friends. His parents and brother as well as his fiancée were his life. “He was so ambitious. As a sales agent he worked hard to become a manager. He spoilt his family and friends with thoughtful gestures. His death has shattered his parents, brother and fiancée. They are struggling to come to terms with his passing. As a family, we are all devastated and we want the perpetrators caught and punished,” said Chetty. Umesh Singh,Phoenix Community Police Forum (CPF) chairman, said: “This is another heart-wrenching tragedy to rock Phoenix. A Good Samaritan paid with his life. He took a reactive stance to crime and those vile perpetrators took his life. “Community members are fed up with criminals invading their homes and properties. They want to protect themselves and their community but these callous criminals
have no mercy. We mourn with the bereaved family and we as a community will work with police to ensure those responsible for his death are punished.”