The city’s ageing plumbing infrastructure failed the residents of Overport, Sydenham and Asherville during the recent heavy rains resulting in at least four pipes bursting and leaving almost 80 percent of residents without water for three days and more over the weekend. Irate residents voiced their frustration and anger on WhatsApp groups and with local ward councillors. Ethekweni Secure members along with councillors worked until late hours trying to reduce the inconvenience and ensure that municipality departments worked swiftly to remedy the situation. Residents claim that the municipality is delaying in fixing water pipe bursts. Jeanette Wybrow, a resident of ward 31 said that she reported a water leak on Sparks Road (Moses Kotane) and gave the reference number to the ward councillor. “The matter was escalated and the people who came to fix it arrived at 10am the next morning. The only problem was that the neighbours surrounding the area were not warned that water would be cut at 6pm that afternoon. They were back early to let us know they were awaiting  their supervisors with the keys to put back the water, who only arrived at 10am. People were filling water at the metro on the corner of Barns Road. The elderly suffered the most as they could not carry bucket loads of water,” Wybrow said. She said that a hole on the surface of the road appeared again last week, just a few days after the repairs were done.” According to the contractors, the tarring that was done is temporary, in case there is another water cut. Sadly, Sparks Road has heavy traffic and no signs are put up while the tar is soft. The traffic goes over it and it opens up again. The contractors really need to do some research and find a more permanent solution for their shoddy patchwork repairs. The councillor should follow up as well. On the upper side of Sparks Road we were without water for 18 hours last week,” said Wybrow. Ethekwini Secure has been actively involved in issues of service delivery in the Overport area. Ahmed Sultan, a member of Ethekwini Secure, said that the cause of the burst pipes may have been as a result of the recent heavy rains but it all leads back to aging infrastructure. Sultan said that the entire Overport area up to Morningside had issues since last Friday which is out of the community’s control. “At least three pipes burst in Overport alone. Ethekwini Secure did their best to try to assist the community by talking to the relevant people in the municipality, to bring out water tankers for relief, however, some community members are not able to store enough water,” said Sultan. He said that the repairs were out of Ethekwini Secures control however they did have some members going out to oversee work that was being done just to give feedback to the community. “We also understand that the councillors are under pressure and when residents do not get any response from them it is really a problem. The municipality has to look at renewing the infrastructure to get rid of the problem permanently. If not, we must just be ready for more bursts as more heavy rains are expected during the course of the week,” said Sultan Councillor Charmaine Clayton of ward 31 said that her phone ‘rang off the hook’ recently when residents of Moses Kotane Road were calling to complain about shoddy repair work that was done. This was after a truck assigned to clear rubble that was left from a previous repair, three weeks ago caused more damage, busting another pipe. “Residents are failing to understand that we are not responsible for the bursts, potholes or any other faults in the ward, however, as councillors, we are there to assist in escalating their complaints to the relevant people in the Municipality Departments to get a faster response,” Clayton said. Clayton urged residents to ensure that they report all service delivery problems to the municipality, and make them accountable to provide service delivery to the area before resorting to blaming anyone for the issues being experienced currently. “I cannot emphasise enough to the residents that they first need to report it to the relevant eThekwini Municipality department and send me a reference number with details so that I can then escalate the matter and follow up to ensure it is being addressed. These reports need to be made by residents. Our jobs as councillors is not just dealing with service delivery but I agree that it is shocking, with potholes, burst water pipes, electricity outages, non-maintained parks and verges. These complaints come to my phone and it does not stop, as people seem to think if they report to me it will be repaired immediately,” Clayton said. She said that is not the case as she also relies on the municipality to follow through with the required work to be done, and she agrees that the municipality is failing the communities dismally. Councillor Hassan Haniff of ward 25 said that in his ward, the streets that were affected were Dr Naidu Road with three pipe bursts in one day, leaving residents without water for over two days.  “Felix Dlamini Road had a burst on Monday morning which took backfill five hours to come to site. The water got cut and was only restored on Tuesday, at 10am. Crocus Road also had a burst in the early hours of Tuesday morning at 1am. Fortunately, a team was dispatched to the area immediately for repairs and water was back at 11am on the same day,” said Haniff He said that this has been a very stressful time for both him and the residents. Haniff added that as ward councillors they are taking the blame, being subjected to abuse and being sworn at on service delivery WhatsApp groups, which does not help the situation in any way as it does not solve any of the issues being experienced. Both Haniff and Clayton echoed the same sentiments saying that as much as they are the ward councillors, they are doing their best in escalating matters to the relevant departments. “The departments have full knowledge of the issues being reported and are always delayed in service delivery. We do not get updates from the departments, until we call them. At times, the burst pipes are being repaired and all that is needed is backfill. In most cases, it takes them four to five hours to arrive and this backfill is used to put weight on the water line before the water is open again,” said Haniff. The councillors have said that some plumbers do take their time in repairing, but there are times when they are busy in another area working on a different repair, and this also causes delays. “Residents should also be aware that after repairs have been done, it takes EWS weeks to remove the spoils and road repairs also take a long time to be sorted,” Haniff added. He said that as a councillor, he updates the community as and when he has information available, but he urges the community to understand that he cannot be held responsible for the burst pipes. “I cannot be held responsible for the bursts. The bursting of pipes is as a result of old infrastructure and the blame should be put on the department who are failing to maintain and put in place a proper plan for replacement. I cannot be blamed for the delay in restoration of water either, as this lies in the control of the department and the contractors employed by the municipality to undertake the repairs. I do my best to escalate the reports I receive and the rest is left to the municipality. There are many water tankers and TLB machines currently under repair and yet eThekwini Water Services (EWS) are always requesting for new ones, which basically indicates corruption. There is a lot of corruption in the municipality internally and this is severely affecting service delivery,” Haniff said. Haniff added that the infrastructure in the area is over 100 years old and when requesting the municipality for new relays his requests are met with excuses. “Sometimes when a plumber charges the line in opening and bleeding the line, they open too fast and this results in another piece of pipe exploding right next to the line that was being repaired and that results in another three to 12 hours without water,” said Haniff. He said that he understands that residents have the right to complain about service delivery, as they are the ratepayers and contributors to the city, however, they must not put the blame on the wrong person. “Whether it is water, electricity, Durban Solid Waste or parks department, residents must report to the municipality first. When reporting, make sure you obtain a reference number and the names of officials you speak to, as this makes it easier to follow up. Also, always have a pen before calling so that you can take down all the details. Give the person proper information, including the physical address, your name and contact number. I am on the water WhatsApp group with water officials and if some residents are unable to get through to the call centre, I can assist and get a reference number.Once you have obtained the reference number you can forward it to me on the service delivery WhatsApp group or send it to me privately,” said Hannif. He further said that the councillor is not always aware of a problem until someone complains about it. The councillors are urging residents to report matters properly and to work together with them to speed up resolving the issues. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson said: “We are not aware of the leaks. But now that it has been brought to our attention, the city will move with speed to address the issue.” Contact numbers to report faults: Electrical faults and outages Call 080 131 3111 /  WhatsApp to 076 791 2449 Email: custocare@elec.durban.gov.za, Potholes, water leaks or pipe burst, sewage spills, illegal building, parks, trees and verges Call 080 131 3111 EWS WhatsApp number: 073 1483 477 Email: eservices@durban.gov.za. Land invasion Call 031 311 4699 or 031 311 4701 or 4702. Emergency services  Call: 031 361 0000 Revenue department: Email: revline@durban.gov.za. Councillor Charmaine Clayton Email: Ward31@ethekwini.org or send her a message on 082 344 1722 with your reference number. Councillor Hassan Haniff: Call / WhatsApp: 084 701 2732