As the family and friends of Isipingo dad and murder victim, Shaun Govender (35), bid farewell to him today, Thursday 01 October, his alleged killers have been arrested and will appear in Durban Regional Court tomorrow thanks to round the clock investigations by the sterling detectives of Isipingo SAPS. Communications officer at Isipingo SAPS, Captain David Ragavan, said: “Three male suspects aged between 25 and 27 were arrested by Isipingo SAPS police officers. The knife used in the murder was recovered as well as the deceased’s stolen kit bag and a pair of blood stained shoes worn by one of the suspects.” “Isipingo SAPS management commends D/W/O VS Govender, D/W/O D Naidoo, Cst D Naidoo and Community Police Forum member, Les for working tirelessly and swiftly following up on intel received to swoop on the suspects. These police officers are acknowledged for their brilliant efforts and dedication to policing,” added Cpt Ragavan. Govender was viciously stabbed during a robbery on Inwabi Road in Isipingo, on Friday night. Spokesperson for PT Alarms, Dhevan Govindasamy said: “PT Ambulance Service responded to the stabbing on Inwabi Road where the male victim was found to be deceased. PT Ambulance Service paramedics declared the victim deceased. The victim was found with severe stab wounds to the neck and upper back. “Paramedics reported that there was a blood trail that indicated the stabbed victim dragged himself in his critical state to get help. He succumbed to his injuries on scene. It is alleged the victim was robbed of his belongings as he was returning home from work and the suspects fled. According to information reported on scene, the victim cried out to a friend nearby but died before anyone could reach him.” Govender’s friends and family rushed to the scene to find his lifeless body strewn on the ground. Govender, a father to a one-year-old daughter, and a devoted bhajan group member is mourned by his family and friends who received news of his killing with shock and horror.