Its been over a month since the Springfield Weekly Gazette published a story about a water leak in Newlands East and it still has not been attended to. Michelle Williams, who lives in a block of flats on Mackarel Avenue in Newlands East said that she is fed up of waiting for the municipality and the councillor to attend to the leak and other concerns they have raised with them in the past years. Williams has been living at the same address for over 31 years and is not finding any joy since there has been a leak which started seven years ago. She said that the leak has caused so much damage including a crack in the foundation and staircase. “The leak is also leaving a green slimy residue just outside the entrance to the flats and behind the flat where the residents are doing their washing,” Williams said. She said that the leak keeps getting worse and is a health hazard as she is living with an asthmatic grandchild and her elderly, sickly 72-year-old mother. The matter was reported to both the councillor and the eThekwini water services department. Williams said that technical staff from the water department came to investigate, earlier this year but have not come back. “We have another problem now where the pipe feeding our water meter is also leaking. The water department came to fix the pipe and left it in the open and it is creating a problem of mosquitos,” said Williams She said that to date, the councillor has not come back to them after she promised to escalate the matter further. “We urge the municipality to take this matter seriously,” Williams said. The Springfield Weekly Gazette visited the area again this week after one of the residents raised concerns about the elderly who are having to climb a steep staircase to access transport when going out to the clinic or going to hospital for checkups. Reagan Turpin who lives with his autistic nephew and his elderly mother said that he made a suggestion to the ward councillor Joyce Johnson for a pathway from the flat to the bus stop to be constructed. “I went to the municipality and made my request, I was told to speak to my councillor about it, but all has failed. Our elderly have to climb the staircase of over 20 steps to get to the road, if one is sick and needs to be transported to the hospital with an ambulance, paramedics will have to carry them up the staircase which is very steep. If a pathway or driveway is constructed, all will be easy,” said Turpin. He said all his attempts to have the councillor come and see where he is proposing to have the pathway constructed has fallen on deaf ears. On Wednesday, councillor Johnson said that an email was sent to the head of the water and sanitation department at the municipality with a list of water issues in her ward. “There were about four of five complaints with reference numbers which I sent to eThekwini. I think about a month ago, some of those issues have been attended to. I believe that the municipality is fixing them slowly but surely,” said Johnson. She said that with regard to the pathway construction, she cannot comment as she still needs to visit the flats for a site inspection. She promised to do the inspection anytime in the week. EThekwini Municipality was contacted for comments but none was received at the time of print.