This summer, SOKA is calling on young and adult men from ages of 15 years upwards to step up and take charge of their own health and that of their partners by choosing to medically circumcise. The non-profit organisation based in Durban North has announced their free voluntary medical male circumcision services around eThekwini after months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Phakamani Ndlovu, a demand generation officer from SOKA said that his passion for the cause started in 2011 when he went for a free circumcision at McCord Hospital. He said that after the procedure, he posted on the hospital’s Facebook page to commend the staff for their professionalism and for the ‘awesome’ service. “They called me and asked if I would talk about my experience and encourage people at their clinic and I became an ambassador for medical male circumcision in eThekwini,” said Ndlovu. He said that although the focus is to target males between the ages of 15 and 34 for circumcision as they are at a higher risk and are the most sexually active, they do, however, encourage men of all ages to undergo the procedure. Ndlovu said that the organisation has a mobile clinic which moves around eThekwini promoting this and also offers free service in health facilities across the communities of eThekwini Municipality. “We target workplaces, churches, colleges such as Elangeni , all Coastal Colleges, eThekwini College, UKZN campuses and DUT. We visit taxi ranks, train stations, malls, hostels to promote, and recruit young and adult men for this free circumcision service,” he said. Ndlovu said: “We know that circumcision reduces transmission of HIV by 60 percent and we know that our province has one of the highest rates of HIV in the world, so let us do whatever we can to bring down those rates. All eThekwini men need to step up and do their bit in the fight against HIV and getting circumcised and promoting circumcision to your friends is one easy thing we can all do.” “Be a Boss this summer and #NGENAEMABHOZENI no matter the season. The weather and temperature does not necessarily affect the healing process and free medical male circumcision services are available all-year-round,” said Ndlovu. To book for a free circumcision and to get more information, contact Phakamani Ndlovu on 083 761 5841 or 031 582 4363.