Turning a derelict dump into a BMX track has been a work of passion for Durban North duo, Jimmy Reynolds and Chris Charlton-Jones. The Beachway Bike Park initiative started after the Enviro Fixers started their garden on a vacant field. “When the Enviro Fixers started their garden (at the top of what is now the bike park) Charlton-Jones jumped at the opportunity and called me up and said ‘let’s just do it’. Next thing, we started building,” said Reynolds. He said that he knew Charlton-Jones socially and he used to send him pictures of awesome pump tracks from around the world as a joke. “We would chat about how amazing it would be to have one nearby for the children to ride,” said Reynolds. Reynolds who had spent his twenties riding BMX professionally and had the best times, said that through his journey, he had met amazing people and got to constantly travel the length and breadth of South Africa. “It was the most amazing “university of life” and I owe everything I am now to that,” he added. Charlton-Jones said that the BMX track which is soon to be a bike track as well will involve a lot of activities that the children would enjoy. “It has been such a breath of fresh air to be outside keeping ourselves busy. Especially during a recession where we have the time but not the disposable income. So, it has been great for us. However, the real gold has been seeing how all the neighbours came together and met each other. All the children are friends and are rolling together in a huge pack. It has also been great to see them learning to ride bikes and learning how to test their own limits and learn those life lessons,” said Charlton-Jones. Reynolds said that children of all ages are welcome to participate and learn how to ride. “I have a one-year-old that stumbles around clapping for any rider that comes past and a three-year-old who is just learning to ride his BMX through the pump track section. There are kids of all ages riding all the jumps and helping build new ones and on the other hand, I just turned 40 and I’m hitting some of the jumps and having the time of my life. There are always a few grandparents who have brought their grandchildren down who bring dogs, chairs and flasks of tea,” added Reynolds. The duo say the park is community run therefore, they welcome anybody with open arms and are stoked to see the new faces everyday. “Lots of the dads bring spades and rakes and also help out maintaining the jumps. We have just been given all the army land to extend the trail so big things are on the horizon. Without the help of Vanessa Knight and Tracy Dennison we would never be where we are today with the park,” they said. “While the entry is free, we will welcome any donations towards the upkeep,” they added. To participate or donate to their upkeep, connect with them on
their Instagram page: @beachwaybikepark.