Greenwood Park police station came under the spotlight after five police officers stood in the dock on charges of theft, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice following an incident in June 2020. Four of the police officers were granted bail of R3 000 each and will appear in court on 7 December while a fifth police officer was remanded in custody and will appear in court on 3 November due to a pending case against him for a similar offence. Identified as police constables Strinjen Pillay, 32, Nhlanhla Goodman Mthembu, 35, Khulekani Shezi, 41, Douglas Dube, 32 and Kethokuhle Mzoke, 36, the five policemen appeared in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court on Tuesday 20 October. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said detectives from the Provincial Anti-Corruption Unit made the arrests following an incident that took place during June where the complainant was kidnapped. “It is alleged on 16 June at 11.15am, the complainant was walking on Park Station Road in Kenville when he was stopped by the police officers who searched him and took cash and cigarettes from his vehicle. He was kidnapped and taken to his house where the suspects removed more cigarettes and cash, said Col Mbele. Col Mbele said that the police officers also took him to the station where he was charged for violating Covid-19 regulations. The case against him was not placed on the roll. The complainant reported the matter to the police and charges of theft, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice were opened for investigating at Greenwood Park SAPS. “It was also established that police officers did not enter all the exhibits on the register. A total of five suspects aged between 30 and 35 appeared before the Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court. Four suspects were granted bail of R3000 and the matter was remanded to 7 December. The fifth suspect was remanded in custody until 3 November due to the pending case against him for similar offence,” added Col Mbele. “We will make sure that we root-out all rotten apples hiding behind the SAPS badge while committing crimes,” said the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula.