“It’s said that ‘power corrupts’, but actually it’s more true that power attracts the corruptible. The sane are usually attracted by other things than power. When they do act, they think of it as service, which has limits. The tyrant, though, seeks mastery, for which he is insatiable, implacable.” – David Brin, scientist- science-fiction author. Justice delayed is justice denied. Dial the needle to the right of the new SA’s moral compass and this legal maxim rings true, particularly as politicians and side-kicking tenderpreneurs find themselves on the wrong side of the law. Under apartheid, the rule of law, injustice and detention without trial was the norm and court houses were symbols of cold, dreary chambers of criminality, confessions and convictions. Therefore, jurists and justices of colour fought fiercely for a new culture of jurisprudence the study, knowledge, science and philosophy of law. No one is a law unto himself or herself. So when the ANC’s short-fused councillor at the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Andile Lungisa, challenged his grievously bodily harm (GBH) judgment, the nation must sit up and ask: really? Or higher-up the political food chain disgraced former president Jacob Zuma has consistently made clarion calls to have his day in court – then lines are blurred between politics and the independence of our judicial system. Mob fuelled anarchic attacks on the court houses are an assault on our justice system, and there is no room for vigilantism, mob justice or kangaroo courts. Justice delayed is justice denied when a legal address or equitable relief to an injured party is available, but is not carried out timeously, thereby depriving one of legal remedy or relief. Lungisa was found guilty and sentenced to prison for three years, suspended for one year, for smashing a glass jug on the head of DA councilor Rano Kayser during a heated scuffle at a council meeting in 2016. Once convicted of assault to do GBH, the one-time youth league head honcho cried foul about “political interference and corruption’’ in the supreme and apex courts. Four years later, he retracted his controversial claims for having casting aspersions on the impartiality of the courts offending all the judges and then sidestepped his bail, retracted his spurious statements and quietly trundled off to his cell dressed in a orange jump suit and mask to learn new coping skills and anger management. This case brought home to voters of how violently politicians can get up to in higher and lower tier parliaments, where the EFF’s Red Berets created chaos, but were manhandled and bundled out of the precinct of political debates, dignity and decorum. Cameras captured EFF MP Floyd Shivambu allegedly beating a policeman and roughing up a photographer. The ruling ANC elite and its bussed, night vigil supporters often chorus from the same hymn book that its wrongdoing foot soldiers – including Durban mayor Zandile Gumede are “innocent until proven guilty’’. Public pressure, however, triggered a coup d’état at the city hall and her team innocent or guilty were purged and replaced by a new regime. Zuma, on the other hand, has been a numero uno trailblazer in his impending trial in the arms procurement saga involving France’s arms dealer Thales over a 15-year legal stretch. The ex head of state is still facing 18 charges of fraud, money laundering, corruption and racketeering charges stemming from a R30-billion package deal signed in 1999 over accepting bribes, allegedly, as protection fees. His ex-financial aide Schabir Shaik, a “terminally ill’’ parolee, featured in a televised court drama, convicted and sentenced to jail for facilitating the bribes aimed at protecting Thales from prosecution. Recently, three judges concurred and dismissed the Zuma-Thales application for a permanent stay of prosecution and Zuma’s leave to appeal with costs. This culture of dodging the courts saw Zimbabwe’s ex-first lady, Grace Mugabe, disappear via diplomatic immunity after she assaulted a 20-year-old model girlfriend of her high-lifestyle-living son. For a decade since the 2010 FIFA World Cup soccer police tender scandals, Thoshan Panday and Navin Madhoe, two of four co-accused, were brought court to face
a string of 261 counts of corruption and fraud in a R47-million SAPS temporary accommodation inflated pricing racket. Quite dramatically, ex-provincial police chief Mmamonnye Ngobeni and ex-cop Ashwin Narainpershad showed up in court 48 hours later. All are out on bail. Amidst these good-cop-bad-cop narratives lies a sub-plot: a lavish birthday party thrown for the police chief’s cop husband. Somehow, the long arm of the law registers its wins and loses. The wheels of justice turn slowly, but justice is always on your trail do a case study of Alan Boesak, Tony Yegeni, Jackie Selebi, and others from penitentiary precincts of prisons. On the flipside of the scale of justice, SA’s high-profile criminal cases has unmasked inequality in the justice system- re: the brutal murders of victims from Oscar Pistorius, Shrien Dewani to Senzo Meyiwa – the wheels of justice tilts only for those with wealth, power and expensive lawyers. My Lady, but all are equal before the court when audi-alterem-partem other side of the story is tested. Who knows it may be Aces
High or Hang ‘em High – Hollywood style at a police raid or swoop in the neck of your woods. Until next week: Readers are Leaders – brace to read about authors putting pen to paper in the Covid-19 war rooms of the wordsmiths to bring us some jaw-dropping stories. Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist who heads a media communication strategy, publishing and research consultancy, belongs to the Southern African Freelancers’ Association (SAFREA), SA Editors’ Forum (SANEF), Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International), and is an USIS International Visitor and British Council Fellow; and an independent political and social commentator who continues to write columns and leading articles and opinion-editorial commentary for newspapers, magazines, TV and radio, online digital and social media platforms without fear or favour. Marlan can be contacted via email to marlan.padayachee@gmail.com.