In celebration of the 160 years anniversary of Indian indentures, a mobile museum will travel around the country exhibiting the uniqueness and early history of the indentured Indians. This unique mobile museum will be exhibited at the Phoenix Plaza Shopping Centre from 1 to 10 November. This educational and informative concept is the brainchild of exhibition promoter Dineshren Naidoo and the 1860 Indenture Project. The impresario has a long track record in the cultural arena and has worked with local and international artists and historians. Naidoo said: “With the upcoming 160th anniversary of Indian indentured, the mobile museum will be on exhibition in shopping malls for people to get an experience of this powerful storyline.” The community will be free to interact with the exhibition, artists, and vendors with different cultural items and elements. Naidoo added that this anniversary had a strong emotional bond in the community and encouraged people to make a special effort to view the mobile museum. In making up the murals and displays, he has consulted with historians and artists to portray “the authentic Indian experience in KwaZulu-Natal”. The Kumari Ambigay Dance Institute incidentally celebrates its 50th anniversary milestone this year, making it the oldest Bharatanatyam Dance School in KZN, South Africa and Africa. The cultural icon Kumari Ambigay known as the Mother of culture, queen of the stage will be amongst the guests who will be honoured for her contribution to the preservation of Indian dance and music. “Much of the early history of the 1860 Indentured Indians is still to be documented and would be difficult to fathom those days of struggle and hardship given the gigantic strides that Indians have made in all sectors today. To understand those times of the founding period and beginnings of the Indian community in South Africa we need to divorce our thoughts from the comforts, conveniences and material advantages so lavishly in abundance in this technological and hitech age,” said Naidoo. He said that all the comforts and conveniences which today’s present-day generation takes for granted were quite unknown to our forebears. “The horse, ox and the donkey were the only forms of mobility for both work and pleasure.
The homes of our forefathers were constructed of man handled materials, primitive by today’s standards. Homes were lighted after dark only by candles, paraffin, lanterns or wicks, soaked in oil and clay lamps, prayer lamps called Kamatchee vilaku or Dheiyas (made from clay). There were neither curtains or bed sheets, they only knew hessian sacking. The open hearth and the wood stove were without competition in the kitchen. “Domestic water supplies arrived from nearby rivers, ponds or babbling brooks, the most common form of carrying this water was by a bamboo slung across the shoulder carrying two big tins of water slung on either sides of the bamboo called a banga. Our grand and great grandchildren of today wither to listen to this early history in amazement or disbelief.” Naidoo further stated that South Africans should be proud of these valiant indentured Indians. “Today over 1,5 million Indians living in South Africa are here because of Natal’s sugar industry in 1860 where our forefathers were brought here as the vital labour force to work in the sugar industry. Our contribution to developing SA started on this day, today we are certainly a vital part of the history and economy of our country, which we have rightly adopted as the land of our birth. We all work together with everyone else towards the prosperity and progress of our beautiful South Africa, glowing magnificently with its heritage of its diverse cultures and people,” added Naidoo.