The Minorities of South Africa (MOSA) threw its weight behind moves to extend all the additional existing Covid-19 relief grants that has been paid to millions of unemployed, disabled, old age, foster, and child support recipients during the lockdown. The money is meant to cushion the financial impact of the lockdown for those living in poverty and without employment. Ronnie Veeran, Mosa national chairperson said that the country is still in lockdown with the possibility of a second round of the pandemic and with it a further loss of jobs.
“This is on top of the conservatively 10 million unemployed people in the country at the moment. As evidence of this, we in Phoenix need look no further than the daily long
queues at the Phoenix Post Office and the unemployment office – The Phoenix Tabloid dated 13 October 2020 “Long queue woes at labour offices” Verran said. He said that the thousands of people that have visited their head office in Stonebridge since the start of the lockdown requesting food and food hampers as well as assistance with their arrears from electricity and water accounts is an indication of the dire situation that people from all income groups now find themselves in. “With no prospect of the unemployment situation getting better any time soon, we believe that continuing with the additional covid-19 grants will certainly help the indigent who have no other source of income,” said Veeran. Veeran said that while the efforts of organisations like Food for Life and the Phoenix Crisis Centre, among other organisations in the community must be lauded, there is still a huge need for this grant to be retained as the struggle is far from over. “While my party is cognisant of the financial strain, continuing with the grant will place, on the National Treasury, we believe that desperate times calls for desperate measures. If government clamps down on fraud and corruption by politicians and government officials and recovers what they stole of taxpayers money, in addition to stopping the commissioning of new nice to have projects and tightening procurement processes, where the bulk of the money is going down the drain, this will go a long way towards boosting the state coffers,” he said. “Concern has been raised in certain quarters that administratively the government was failing to administer the distribution of grants. Our view is that there are enough capable and qualified people of all race groups who are sitting at home unemployed who are more than adequate to the task of administering the distribution of these grants. The time is now opportune for government to open up job opportunities without discrimination if it wishes to run a lean, mean and efficient civil service across all spheres of government,” added Veeran. President Cyril Ramaphosa told a joint sitting of Parliament on Thursday, 15 October that South Africa’s Covid-19 grant would be extended for three more months. The president said that the R350 grant was necessary as recovery measures were currently being rolled out to bring the country’s economy to some form
of normality. “As recovery measures are being rolled out, we need to do everything in our means to provide support to those in society who continue to face hunger and distress. We will therefore be extending the special Covid-19 grant by a further three months. This will maintain a temporary expansion of social protection and allow the labour market sufficient time to recover,” said the president. Last week, Cooperative Government and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma extended the National State of Disaster until 15 November. Dlamini-Zuma said the extension of the lockdown will allow the government to put plans in place to prevent a second wave of Covid-19 infections.