With the easing of restrictions, parents and caregivers are back at work and need their children’s ECD centres to open again. However, much has had to be done for the centres to be ready to welcome the little ones. The Department of Social Development issued parameters for the risk assessments, state of readiness, health and hygiene protocols before these significant learning and care centres could re-open. The Domino Foundation’s ECD programme has been front footed and proactive in helping the 63 centres which work alongside Domino’s Nutrition programme to meet the department’s criteria. Zanele Nzimakwe, leader of the ECD team at Domino Foundation ECD programme said: “We have worked with the centres’ owners and teachers to file the department’s self-assessment forms. Now, with re-opening on the horizon, we have helped with ensuring correct sanitising of the centres, and with making arrangements for regular screenings of the children and arranging classroom spaces for stipulated social-distancing.” Nzimakwe said that many of the children’s caregivers have not been earning during lockdown: “They have not been able to pay the fees which the centres depend on for their day-to-day running and so there is nothing extra in the bank accounts for the centres to pay for staff PPE masks, sanitisers, cleaning materials and thermometers. Even soap and water for some centres is a challenge.” The Domino team alongside ECD owners and their teams have scrubbed, polished and sprayed classroom spaces in the centres and helped with ensuring outdoor play areas conform to the DSD’s directives. Nzimakwe appealed to the wider community to support the ‘Get Our Little Children Back To School’ sanitising activity which will be ongoing as long as the Covid-19 regulations are in place. “People can contact us on admin@domino.org.za or on 031 563 9605. We will need to help these ECD centres with cleaning and sanitising materials for some time to come,” said Nzimakwe. For more information you can go to their link tree https://linktr.ee/DominoFoundation.