With the Covid-19 lockdown restriction uplifted to level one, matriculants can enjoy the Rage Festival despite the dark cloud brought by the pandemic. Every year, Grade 12 pupils look forward to the “matric vacation week” where they get loose and de-stress through different activities. The annual event that draws thousands of teenagers usually takes place in Ballito and uMhlanga. Brendan Keen of G&G Productions, organisers of the Matric Rage Festival said that their much anticipated annual event attended in Ballito and uMhlanga by matriculants countrywide would take place from 27 November to 4 December. “We are proud to announce that the festival will take place in a more distributed way. There will be more clusters of action offering more variety with everyone’s favourite DJs and artists. We have always taken a strict approach to health and safety but this year we’ll set a new benchmark with our Covid-19 health protocols strictly in line with current government regulations,” said Keen. Barend Olivier general manager of the uMhlanga Cabanas said that 80 percent occupancy in the middle of September was excited about the coming festive season: “We’re expecting to be packed as usual during December and will be strictly adhering to government legislation on Covid-19 health protocols.” Louise Vogt founder of the Ballito-based Luxury Coastal Escapes said that being affected by the pandemic from day one has been inundated with enquiries and bookings since interprovincial travel was allowed. “Many families seem to be taking their holidays now demonstrating a nomadic trend of moving temporarily to the coast. Our December bookings are picking up and we envisage a very busy season,” she said. Every year the Ballito UIP starts preparing for the festive season as early as September and despite the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, precinct manager Thierry Leclezio said that this year will be no different. He said: “Planning has already kicked off for the festive season and we’re focused on ensuring the Ballito UIP looks ship shape ahead of the arrival of visitors. Planned initiatives will include painting of curbing and walls, straightening of bollards, revamping the promenade ablutions, replacing promenade planks and neatening up gardens and verges.” Leclezio said that they aim to bring in additional staff to assist with cleaning, greening and security during the December period. The uMhlanga UIP is also preparing ahead for December. Dewet Geldenhuys manager for the uMhlanga Precinct said that he is already updating the festive season plan for approval by SAPS, the parks department and Metro Police. Other activities include prepping the village for Christmas lights, painting amenities, removing washed up logs, lawn dressing grassed areas, upgrading all road markings, fixing street lights and power washing and cleaning key public areas. “We’re also requesting 10 additional cleaning staff to keep the precinct clean during the busier time,” he added. While UIP preparations are well underway, other KZN precincts are preparing for the festive season as well. Precinct manager Nwabisa Mkhize said: “Areas such as Riverhorse Valley Business Estate, Bridge City and Cornubia Industrial Business Estate are generally quiet during the festive season, however, our respective security personnel and 24/7 control rooms are always alert for opportunistic behaviour and prepared to respond to any potential eventuality with the support of SAPS or Metro Police.”