Durban North residents who go to the Hyper by the Sea Post Offices to renew their vehicle licenses are complaining of long straggling queues. They claim they sometimes have to go back four times in row in order to renew their licences. Roy Pearsall, from Sunningdale said that the communication service between the Post Office attendants and cosumers has to improve. “We arrived at the Post Office and noticed a long queue on Saturday, 3 October. We thought we would chance it and after an hour had passed, a Post Office attendant walked out and very casually told people that if they did not have a number they would not be seen to. This was at around 12pm, the numbers were handed out at around 7am and nobody had informed anyone of this. “When the obviously angered crowd gathered around her asking what they must do and why they were not told, the attendant became very abrupt and looked at the one lady who was speaking to her calmly and fairly respectfully (and who had been coming for nearly a week day after day and did not get a number) she turned to her and allegedly snapped  ‘You can come here earlier and you can stand in line like everyone else’ she then stormed off,” he said. Pearsall said that they were however, told that if they wanted a number they had to be at the Post Office at 7am for a number as this is when the numbers are handed out. He said that they left and checked Google to see if Redhill Post office was open. “Google said it was but when we got there it was closed. We were up at 6.30am the following day and we were at the Post Office by 7am as instructed. “While standing in the queue, we got to talking to the people around us. The gentleman behind us had already been there four days in a row, the lady in front of us had been there five days in a row. She did not have transport and was travelling from one of the townships and was leaving very early just to make it there. With both the gentleman and the lady, on all previous days the numbers were handed out and they ran out of numbers two or three people in front of them and were told ‘sorry there is nothing we can do for you’,” Pearsall added. He said that at this point, he nearly boiled over because there were people obviously pushing in the line in the front, so he went inside and demanded to have this resolved. “The issue is that they only hand out the numbers at around 9.30am usually and they have absolutely no control in place over the line outside, nor do they display any care for what happens outside their door,” he added. Pearsall said that the South African Post Offices (SAPO) should consider putting a number system outside the premises. Zinhle Dube said that when she came to renew her license the first time, she was told that only 80 people
can be attended on the day. “When they reached number 50, they just shut the doors on everyone who had been queueing for hours and told us all to come back the next day. This happened again the next day and the same number shortage happened,” said Dube. Nobuhle Njapha, KwaZulu-Natal SAPO spokesperson said that MVL counters
have been busy since mid-August after level 2 of the lockdown. “We experienced a higher number of renewals as well as expired licenses. At Hyper by the Sea we issue 150 tickets to MVL customers during the week and if we are done and are still
open we accept more. On weekends, we issue 85 tickets for MVL customers. We have also introduced a third MVL counter to cater for the high volume of the MVL customers,” Njapha said. She added: “We request our MVL customers to use our alternative branches at the Phoenix and Redhill Post Office. Hyper by the Sea does not pay any SASSA grants and SRD grants,” she added.