Quote: ‘’When I started my airline business, I didn’t know everything, right? If I start up a newspaper tomorrow, I might get ripped off by journalists. You’d be naive to think you know everything from day one.’’ – Tony Fernandes. By Marlan Padayachee

Tourism, travel and transport – The three t’s – is the lifeblood of South Africa’s socio-economic destiny and destination. October is also Transport Month – so state-sponsored aviation, road and sea infrastructure development and progress are on the trump cards of Transport Minister Fikile Mbabula – aka Mr Razzmatazz. Six months of the siege of coronavirus campaigns, our blue skies were thrown open, sea lanes are navigationally clear and railroad tracks are set for the new run from the five-star The Blue Train, Gautrain, Sholoshosa Meyl to the inner-city commuter carriages.
So, imagine the reimagining witnessing gleaming jetliners skidding off our runways following a half-year shutdown of our transport hubs? Or the MSC Musica blowing its horns from the quayside at the Durban harbour? Welcome to sunny South Africa, this is your pilot speaking from the Covid-19 cockpit: first to land at Cape Town International Airport was Germany’s KLM, followed by Ethiopian – the Addis Abba-based company that famously put its best foot forward to the pedal and ferried hundreds of Covid-19 stranded men, women and children from Johannesburg and Mumbai.
Ethiopian played a pivotal role in India’s Vande Bharat (Salute India) repatriation flights, while Air India carried the bulk of the passengers back to their motherland. Then financial globally-hit Emirates made its right royal touchdown from Dubai.
Up the north coast, ACSA’s ubiquitous spokesman and socialite Colin Naidoo is also smiling at King Shaka International Airport as our post-2010 platinum project chalked up safe landings and departures via SAA, Safair, SA Express and Mango.
Faye Freedman of Durban’s oldest metered taxi operator since 1948 raised a glass now that her airport shuttle cabs are on the road to KSIA. Air Zimbabwe, also credited for the repatriation rescue humanitarian flights from China’s Wuhan capital of coronavirus to Johannesburg, landed smoothly to the Cape’s traditional beats and rhythms of the colourful coon carnival bands as the welcome brigades from ACSA to tourism minister, airlines and cash-strapped taxi drivers – including the Uber lot – smiled at the new arrivals. From the traditional rickshaw puller on Durban’s Golden Mile beachfront to the world’s jetliners touching down at the airport to the MSC cruise liners steaming ahead to the paradise islands of Mozambique to the daily runs of our suburban trains to the home of shisanyamas, or the Zola Budds racing thirsty commuters to the nearest township tavern, the tourism turnstiles started working again. The hotel and hospitality industry began clearing the cobwebs for a return and renaissance of tourists and holiday-makers. The government’s positive push towards level one lockdown has freed the frozen economy and social activities- but we must not get ahead of ourselves because this deadly disease is not going anywhere sooner. Not even the anti-mask campaigning President Donald Trump and his First Lady, Melania (nee Melanija Knavs-Knauss) are immune from this life-threatening ‘’China disease’’. So much for the old adage that ‘’when America sneezes, the world catches a flu’’. Back to our own business on the home front: as we say in isiZulu that stakeholders and workers in the tourism industry from provincial economic development, environment and tourism MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube to the foot soldiers on the slopes of the Drakensberg Mountains have been ‘’crying’’ over the monumental loss of millions of rands, jobs and income streams during the tourism black outs. Durban Tourism and KZN Tourism have used TV promotions footages and print and radio to woo paying customers. The hard lock downs of the past 180 days have impacted powerfully on the tourism and transport industry. A WhatsApp call to Joseph Sono informs us that the Transnet-owned, The Blue Train, SA’s famous gilt-edged export that the luxury train sets will be back on tracks – but only twice in November and December to accommodate prepaid overseas and local guests.
While the wings of our airlines are clipped – more in a limbo and cash crunch as Enterprises Minister doles out R10 billion recovery funds; and with workers hoping to snap up SA Express, Transport Month could throw a new spotlight on this vital network of economic activities and job creations. While in the skies, the political chiefs at Luthuli House must cough up R106 000 for hitch-hiking a lift-off on the state aircraft during the ANC junket to Harare; salary of the line minister of defence and military veterans, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, has been docked for the irregular flight manifest. Australian airline Qantas gets my vote of confidence for arranging a seven-hour inflight tour of the Down Under, and for flying it’s ageing aircrafts to its final mission to the aircraft graveyards in the USA. Until next week: All Rise, All Rise, No One is Above the Law – brace to read about the insights, inside track and inquisitions of wrong-doers having their day in the docks at the Palais de Justice or how they are learning new skills behind bars in the penitentiary precincts of prisons. • Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist who heads a media communication strategy, publishing and research consultancy, belongs to the Southern African Freelancers’ Association (SAFREA), SA Editors’ Forum (SANEF), Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International), and is an USIS International Visitors and British Council Fellow; and an independent political and social commentator and continues to write columns and leading articles and opinion-editorial commentary for newspapers,magazines, TV and radio, online digital and social media platforms. Contact Marlan on:marlan.padayachee@gmail.com.