Residents of Kenville Informal Settlement in Durban are calling on the city to fix a sewage leak that has caused an unbearable stench for close to two months. They claim the leak on Boxwood Road has been unattended to despite been reported to the city a few times. Nikiwe Mofokeng said that her neighbour reported the leak on 28 September and again on 10 October but up to today, nothing has been done. She said she doesn’t understand why people living in informal settlements are treated differently than other residents. “Just because we live in an informal settlement, it doesn’t mean that we must live in filth like pigs. No person enjoys living in an untidy area or even worse, smelly area,” she said. Mofokeng said that she is worried about their health and that of the children who play on the road. According to Mofokeng, children even play with the smelly water without realising that it is from a burst sewage drain. “I try my best to keep children away from the sewage water but I cannot be guarding the street all the time. The city must do its job and fix the leak,” Mofokeng said. Her neighbour Gogo Mathibela said that they cannot tolerate the stench emanating from the sewage drain any longer. “How long should we suffer, the smell is unbearable. I am old and have so many health complications, I don’t need this on top of everything else,” Mathibela said. EThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela: “It should be noted that the city will never win the war against clogging of manholes unless if residents change their behaviour. Over 70 percent of manholes that are clogging are as a result of alien objects disposed in our systems and this incident is no exception. We have attend to the leak more than two times and as soon we turn our backs we go back to square one. We are therefore appealing to residents to refrain from using newspapers in their toilets, put a stop to the disposal of items such as tampons, condoms, diapers, and oil to our system. These are all the things that our teams are always retrieving in the event they attend to clogged manholes. The community itself must do their part or this will continue to be a moving target for the city.” The city is currently facing a number of challenges when it comes to water and sewage leaks. Residents in different parts of Durban have been complaining about the city’s low response in attending leaks. Recently, the portfolio committee on cooperative governance and traditional affairs visited the city said to assess service delivery and the state of the municipality. Chairperson of the committee Faith Muthambi said: “Despite the existence of highly qualified workforce in the municipality, we are concerned by the unhappiness expressed by the community regarding the continuation of water and sewage leaks that disrupt the wellbeing of the community. The committee found it ironical that the municipality has adequately and highly skilled workforce to ensure that the quality of service it renders to the communities is of a highest standard, but on the contrary, it provides inadequate service.” The committee raised concerns that despite the growing population within the municipality, the Capital expenditures (CapEx) is seemingly going down which means that the residents are deprived of services. “Despite that, however, the committee welcomed the information that the municipality has put aside 8% of its budget for operations and maintenance which will extend the lifespan of the municipality’s infrastructure. The national and provincial department of cooperative governance have been requested to urgently assist the municipality in getting over R1 billion owed to the municipality by government departments to help ease the cash flow challenges the municipality is facing,” Muthambi said.