KwaZulu Natal MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube has assigned a team of environmentalists to work with Transnet following a crude oil spill in Bellair on Monday. Dube-Ncube visited the area on Tuesday afternoon to asses the situation. Transnet Pipelines (TPL) spokesperson, Saret Knoetze said the spillage was a result
of an attempted theft incident on the crude oil pipeline. She said that immediately following the incident, Transnet activated its emergency response plan and team, whose focus was
on limiting the extent of the spillage and recovering product. “The leak from the pipeline has been plugged and preparation is currently underway to commence full repairs. As a precautionary measure, no fishing will be permitted in the harbour area for the next seven days. Cleaning and rehabilitation of the stream between the source of the spillage and the harbour has commenced,” Knoetze said. Dube-Ncube said: “As the department, we wish to indicate that at this stage, we are working with all role-players to implement spill containment measures to prevent damage to the environment.” She said that she will ensure that all spheres of government work in an integrated
manner in order to strengthen measures undertaken by Transnet as part of cleaning and rehabilitating the source of the spillage and the harbour. “Critically, we are calling upon communities to work with law enforcement agencies to ensure that those who are responsible for vandalising Transnet Pipelines are brought to book. I have been informed by Transnet that they have recorded over 80 incidents of fuel theft and incidents of attempted theft. They have also recorded cases of tampering with pipeline infrastructure with the intention to steal fuel,” the MEC said. Meanwhile, the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA) has called for accountability for the spillage. Desmond DíSa, spokesperson for SDCEA said: “The pipeline should have never been used to transport crude oil knowing full well that the pipeline was closed when the new multi-pipeline was built. This pipeline that is still in operation should have not been used. We were informed in 2008 that this pipeline was going to be closed but we see this is not the case. No wonder we have the leak,” he said. He said the clean-up will take days, weeks even. Transnet is appealing to residents or any persons living near the pipelines or driving passed, especially at night, to report any suspicious activities example bakkies, fuel tankers in the area of the block valve chambers or near their pipeline markers etc. The toll free number is 0800 203 843. “It is of utmost importance to Transnet Pipelines to ensure that the pipelines remain a safe and cost-effective transportation mode of petroleum products and that we fulfil our commitment of security of supply of petroleum products to the inland market area,” Knoetze said.