The Human Trafficking awareness programme held in Sydenham on Sunday brought in communities of people to show their support in preventing and combating trafficking in the area. Families banded together on the day, raising their concerns and shared suggestions on how they can make the community a much safer space for their children.Tasmien Losper, a resident who assisted with organising the programme said that after the shocking stories she had heard of two alleged attempted kidnappings in their vicinity, she knew something had to be done. ” It was a last minute programme that I had put together with another resident, Bianca. We gathered sponsors and donations from the community to put together goodie bags for the attendees. This programme was the first step to getting the community together with their kids to inform and educate them on the severity of human trafficking. People voiced their opinions and shared their suggestions. “This programme was much needed. According to messages going around, our community faced two attempted kidnappings in the corner of Spearman Road and Howell Road, recently. I believe that our children are our future generation and we as parents and adults need to protect and nurture them,” said Losper. Attendees were engaged by volunteer speakers in discussions of human trafficking and were given tips on how to spot a kidnapper and methods on suggestions of safety and precautions. Losper said that the way forward is to start up community watches in all areas of Sydenham and to promptly spread the word throughout Durban. “I am hoping to spread and take this awareness programme into different districts of Durban. The best way forward is to get volunteers who will assist in watching over children, be it walking with them to school or waiting with them for their transport after school. We want to assure these children that they can feel safe and not be fearful.  “We are also looking at the idea of getting whistles for our children in the area, which can be used to defend themselves. For example, if they are in a position where they are being taken away by a stranger, they can then use that whistle to inform the community that they are in danger.” Losper believes that the community can tackle the act of trafficking and that it only takes standing together with one vision, goal and dream. “The goal being taking back our community, the vision being, creating a safe community for our residents and the dream to watch our children become successful,” Losper added.