The escalating rates of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) seem to be a norm in society today. Numerous cases of violent crimes against women and children have been reported in recent weeks according to the Sahara Shelter for abused women and children, a project of the Phoenix Child Welfare Society. In KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) alone, some of the hotspots include Inanda, KwaMashu and Ntuzuma amongst others. The Department of Social Development initiated a community outreach programme to create awareness in these areas with the hope of curbing the violence. On Saturday, 10 October, Minister of Social Development, Lindiwe Zulu visited the Sahara Shelter for abused women and children, accompanied by Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane as well as a delegation of other dignitaries from the Department of Social Development. This visit followed on the national award received by the Sahara Shelter in 2016, as one of 13 top shelters in the country. Social worker at Sahara, Analisa Naidu said: “The minister’s visit formed part of an outreach programme and the focus was on community and stakeholder engagements to raise awareness and promote dialogue to ensure that GBV prevention and responses are grounded on community initiatives. Minister Mashabane was impressed with the work done by the Phoenix Child Welfare Society. She stated that the Society was becoming number one for services rendered, but must help the Inanda, KwaMashu and Phoenix areas not to be number one with respect to GBV.” Nkoana-Mashabane acknowledged the importance of shelter services and the role that it plays in assisting victims of GBV. Her concern was that women and children within the local communities feel unsafe and alone and are often placed in vulnerable situations that lead to them being harmed and violated. The Department of Social Development partially subsidizes shelters to offer accommodation to victims of GBV in a crisis – to promote safety of women and children. Zulu highlighted that the relationships between all departments should be strengthened to end GBV violence in communities. She said each department including health, saps, justice and others has a role to play in assisting victims and encouraged stakeholders to assist victims holistically. The minister was able to directly hear stories of the victims from the Sahara Shelter and was impressed by the help and healing victims received while at the Shelter. She praised the Society and thanked the staff for taking care of vulnerable women and children. The KZN Minister of Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza, thanked Sahara for being an extended arm for Social Development. “You are doing good work to the most vulnerable. We need good samaritans like you to double our efforts in ensuring peace and family values are entrenched,” she said. EThekwini speaker Councillor Weziwe Thusi congratulated Sahara Shelter for their good work. “We would like to assist you where possible, in assisting the most vulnerable,” said Cllr Thusi. The Management of the Phoenix Child Welfare Society awarded the Minister with a certificate of appreciation. “It is only through community initiatives such as this, that government realizes the extent of GBV in our communities. We hope to have more outreach programmes and work together with all departments to curb GBV in our community. To victims of domestic violence, you are far wiser than you realise. Don’t doubt your inner wisdom and strength. If you feel your family safety is compromised, seek help immediately. It could save your family from a tragedy,” added Naidu. The Al Imdaad Foundation KZN team partnered with the delegation to assist with interventions at Sahara Shelter with provision of hygiene packs, face masks, sanitizers and blankets.