The Democratic Alliance in KwaZulu-Natal has called for stricter and more stringent security measures to be placed in schools across the province. This follows the murder of a Grade 8 pupils, at Folweni High High School in gang related violence. The deceased is alleged to have been fatally stabbed by another pupil at the school, who is a member of a rival gang. Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson on education, said that Folweni High is clearly a school under siege. He said: “This is also the same school where a security guard was shot by unknown people in an incident that took place in June last year. We know that gangsterism has multiplicity of origins ranging from poverty, a lack of after school care, the breakdown of family units including absent fathers, drugs and poor policing. To end the terror that these gangs bring, both inside and outside of our schools, government not only needs to work to ensure that school safety is prioritised, it also needs to ensure a well-resourced police service.” Rampant gangsterism at the school, under the Umlazi District, and the murder of the pupil recently led to a visit from Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu. He visited the school on 5 October and was accompanied by members of law enforcement and officials from the district, among others. Mshengu said that they had to intervene as the situation had become unstable and pupils are no longer able to attend, due to fears of retaliation. He said: “There are different groups, pupils have categorised themselves into different gangs. The situation has become volatile and the pupils are now scared to come to school out of fear of being attacked.” The fatal stabbing incident occurred the week prior to the MEC’s visit. It is alleged that a gang fight broke out between Grade 8 and Grade 9 pupils, allegedly belonging to the Mkhosi and Adams gangs at the school which resulted in the fatality. Mshengu said: “We have to draw a redline and say that our school will not be a den for criminals. So we met with the pupils who have identified themselves as gang members and asked them to leave the school immediately.” Mshengu said that he wants a commitment from both pupils and parents that should they do anything that is against the code of conduct, they will be expelled. “We do not want a situation where the majority of pupils attend under fear. Even teachers are no longer safe, so we really need to remove these rotten potatoes if they do not repent.”