With a few days before the start of the national public matric examinations, KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Premier Sihle Zikalala announced the provinces readiness to administer the 2020 matric examinations, which will commence on 5 November and conclude on 15 December. At a media briefing on Sunday, 25 October, the premier said the Department of Education will be writing a “Three-in-One” Examination. “The examinations which were not written in May/June will be written in November/ December. There are 1678 full time examination centers and 72 private examination centres. The province has registered 145 878 full time National Senior Certificate candidates, 22011 part time candidates, 35105 supplementary examination candidates, 18072 Multiple Examination Opportunity (MEO) candidates, and 15667 progressed learners,” said Zikalala. The province has 768 candidates who have been granted concessions during the administration of the 2020 public examinations. There are also 878 candidates who have been granted the immigrant status for writing the National Senior Certificate examination and Amended Senior Certificate Examination. He said that the Department has worked very hard to prepare the class of 2020, both academically and administratively. “This is a year in which our education system and capacity was extremely tested due to Covid-19. It is a year in which the Department of Education has had to dig deep into its well of creativity to salvage the 2020 academic year, ” said Zikalala. The premier explained that to ensure academic readiness under “very testing conditions”, the department introduced intervention programmes to prepare pupils for the 2020 examinations and salvage the academic year. These included orientation sessions, “Just-in-Time Workshop” teacher capacitation programme, and extra tuition for curriculum coverage and revision. “More hours were added by educators and pupils to cover the curriculum and revise the years’ work, and for this we are extremely grateful for the sacrifice and commitment displayed by all stakeholders as we navigate the most trying times and unchartered waters,” said Zikalala. He said that pupils were given booklets to guide them on examination skills. They also had access to digital platforms and radio and television lessons were made available to more pupils. The platforms used included the KZN Funda Portal, as well as the GAMMA gadgets pilot programme, with cutting edge education solutions used in UThukela and Umzinyathi rural districts. The Department of Education is also working with a service provider to ensure easy access to online lessons without paying for it. Another key intervention was the “Hey Maths” programme, which conducted online training for schools via Zoom video conferencing. The “Woza Matric” Program has also been providing good support in mathematics, sciences and other gateway subjects. “We also conducted district support visits which helped to inform the system of what is actually happening on the ground, and lessons that can be learnt from these. These visits assisted districts and schools on matters of curriculum coverage, revision programmes and other special kinds of interventions,” said Zikalala. Zikalala explained that monitors and invigilators have been trained. The Education Portfolio Committee and teacher unions will join the monitoring teams. External monitors will be deployed by Umalusi and the Department of Basic Education. Monitors and invigilators will visit examination centres to ensure that the 2020 public examinations are credible. He said that the selection of markers was completed on 31 August at Durban Teachers’ Centre. The Department of Education appointed 8219 markers, 1734 senior markers, 248 deputy chief markers, 85 chief markers and 85 internal moderators. Markers have been appointed for marking and moderation. The province will use 30 marking centres which will operate under strict Covid-19 protocols. ” We have no doubt that once again the class of 2020 will fly the flag of our province very high.  We are exceptional doers who defy the odds,” said Zikalala.