Snake in the City is about to take Durbanites by storm this season. Simon Keys and Siouxsie Gillett of the National Geographic Wild, famously known for their passion for reptiles are back in South Africa to begin their season seven shooting which was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking at the uMhlanga Glasshouse on Wednesday where there were officially launching their come back to SA for the season seven shoot, the duo said that they hope to soon continue with the filming and are on standby to rescue, remove, or relocate snakes in and around Durban. “We are loving being back as the Spring rains start to turn the KwaZulu-Natal countryside a gorgeous green, and the weather is warming up, bringing out the incredibly diverse
range of snakes. It was quite difficult for us, with our adrenaline-filled lifestyle, to bunker down for all these months, but we are very blessed to have got through it, and are over the moon about starting the filming process again,” Gillett said. “We look forward to meeting the many different people in and around Durban, many of whom, have a fear of snakes, and have no idea what to do when encountering them. “Filming our rescues, removals, and relocations, enables us to educate people about snakes, and that they are a vital part of the eco-system and, for the most part, are harmless. It truly heartens us when we manage to convince a person that killing a snake is not an option and that they are not as terrifying as they think,” said Keys. Graeme Duane, creative director for the Earth Touch said that the series, which reaches a global audience, will be filmed using strict SA government Covid-19 guidelines and regulations. “We have developed a best practice and protocol plan that the whole crew and cast have been thoroughly briefed on, to make filming safe for the team, as well as the members of the public with whom they will come into contact whilst filmings,” said Graeme Duane. Keys and Gillet said that they are available to attend to a snake that needs to be rescued, removed or relocated from properties of people living in the greater Durban area including as far south in Illovo Beach, inland to Botha’s Hill, and north to Tongaat. There is no charge for a call out, and depending on the circumstances, the caller may ‘with permission of course’ end up on the international reality TV series. 