Weenen Farmers Association has called upon uThukela District municipality to publicly retract, apologise and intervene within the community, after a statement was issued by the Uthukela District Communications office, stating that “the farmers are to blame for the lack of water.” Speaking to the Ladysmith Herald on 27 October, Shane Reynolds, chairperson of the Weenen Farmers Association said: “The community is being fueled with a statement that is clearly not true. There is water in the Weenen Canal and ‘Night Dam’.” The Weenen community claim that the farmers are stealing water from the people. “This is what is being said among the Weenen community and this is not true. uThukela is destroying good working relationships between farmers from the area and the community,” said Reynolds. Since the release of the municipal statement, protests have broken out in the area, closing off the R74 between Weenen and Greytown. Motorists and trucks had to transport goods from farms and had to stop or seek alternative routines. The statement released by the municipality said that they are “experiencing raw water shortages in Weenen Canal as the ‘Night Dam’ is drying up.” “We have communicated with the farmers who are also drawing raw water from the same canal, to minimize the amount of water they are abstracting to allow more volumes to go to our treatment plants. We have also requested the Department of Water and Sanitation to release more water from the Wagendrift Dam,” said Uthukela Municipality. The municipality urged communities to use water sparingly and to report water leaks and burst pipes to the municipality as soon as possible to minimize water wastage. They said if the situation does not change wards 20, 21 and 22 will be affected. The municipality said that they will monitor the canal and also request intervention from the senior management and political leadership if the request by farmers and the Department of Water and Sanitation is not attended to. “This is not true, we work closely with people at the Weenen plant and on days that the water level is low, we cut down on our water usage, allowing the Night Dam to fill with water,” said a farmer. The Night Dam received its name, due to the fact that the water is used during the day and during the night the canal which is fed by Wagendrift Dam fills up for the next day. Farmers said that the dam is not dried up as stated in the press release. Farmers felt that “no proper communication was done” and now “they are to be blamed.” When the Ladysmith Herald reporter got to the dam, the canal was found to be running water into the ‘Night Dam’ and according to farmers that dam is full. “This morning, parts of the canal and dam were overflowing,” said a farmer. The farmer’s association also claimed that no one from uThukela Municipality had spoken to the farmers. “I did call uThukela and said that something needs to be done and that counselors and leaders must intervene and set the record straight.” Reynolds said that uThukela has agreed to set the matter straight, but nothing has been done yet.