Phoenix residents have been left in the dark for several weeks following an increase in cable theft in the Rockford and Redfern areas. Residents are calling on the municipality to fix the lights and restore safety to their streets as the entire Rockford Drive and over eight roads in the Redfern area remain without street lights. Reggie Woolfuth, a Redfern resident said: “When there are no street lights, it creates a playground for criminals. We have serious concerns about the increase in crime in our area, almost all of our street lights are not working because of cable theft. The lack of street lights has led to house robberies, car jackings, geysers and other personal property being stolen from our yards. We have contacted the municipality and received reference numbers on numerous occasions. What happens to us and our belongings while we are made to wait for such long periods of time before the lights are restored?” The affected areas in Redfern are Snowfern Road, Peachfern Road, Hopefern Road, Rubyfern Road, Gumfern Road, Sandfern Gardens, Mossfern Road and Redfern Crescent. “The latest cable theft incident took place on 14 September and was immediately reported to SAPS and the electricity department. We often see thieves walking around with bush knives destroying municipal infrastructure. This has made these areas very unsafe and residents fear of being robbed and attacked by the culprits in the evenings,” said Woolfuth. “We need the municipality to restore safety in our neighbourhood because residents are suffering. Such crime continues to increase in various areas because nobody from the relevant department seems to care about what’s going on. This is a serious matter and needs to be addressed urgently as our lives remain in danger,” added Woolfuth. Rogers Rajlall, a resident of Rockford said that Rockford Drive and Redberry Road has been without lights since 12 August. “The municipality was contacted and all they issued to us was reference numbers, we also tried to get assistance from a councillor but he never got back to us with any useful information. Areas without street lights are often targeted for criminal activities and sooner or later, we will become targets due to the lack of street lights in our area,” said Rajlall. Rajlall added that the street lights issue has been left unattended for far too long and residents are tired of living in fear. “Some residents have had their houses broken into, something needs to be done about this urgently,” he said.     