 A Towlen Place daughter vows to get to the bottom of her dad’s murder. She claims Phoenix police were slack in their search for her missing father who died after he was stabbed and landed in Addington Hospital morgue as an unknown person, nearly two weeks ago. Sameshnee Naidoo, 29, a mother of two said she cannot believe that her father, Visanathen ‘Ravi’ Naidoo, 56, had been lying in hospital with stab wounds and they only heard he was found when he was dead, in a morgue, as an unidentified male. “This is such a heartbreaking time for me. My dad, Ravi, had his own personal struggles but he was always close to me. He left my house on 20 September and said he was going to his Caterham Avenue house, but never arrived home,” said Naidoo. She said that they thought he must have been with friends but they became worried after the days passed. “We begged his current wife to register a missing person’s case and finally that was done. Social media alerts were circulated. We hear of many people going missing and finding them deceased. I did not expect that to happen to my dad. My dad went missing and turned up dead,” said Naidoo. “I now have found out that my father was stabbed and found by paramedics in an alley in West Street, on 28 September. He was taken to Addington Hospital. He could not be identified. He passed away on 1 October. I received a call from Phoenix police on 7 October informing me to proceed to the hospital morgue as there is a man who could be my father. Police determined the possibility due to my father’s tattoo and his picture,” said Naidoo. She said that she battled to arrange transport and when she got there, it was devastating to find out what happened to her father. “He has family, yet he was lying as a stranger in a morgue. He died alone without us knowing what happened. He spent his birthday, 30 September, fighting for his life in hospital,” Naidoo said. “My dad could have been found alive. I believe if police acted quickly and searched where we told them, my father could have been found alive. Police were too
slow in their investigations. They did not check the places we informed them he could be. Look at how much time was lost. “I want to know what happened to my father. No matter what, he was my father. He always checked up on my children and me. I will get to the bottom of his death. He was not a nameless soul. Justice must be served,” she added. The grief-stricken daughter said that as the family bids farewell to her father, this was made possible due to the kind assistance of LECS Protection Services, Sector 6 CPF and community members. Naidoo said: “It was difficult to arrange and pay for a funeral for my dad. I appealed to the community and I extend my thanks to Ashika, Mar, Vicky, Loven, Gzo, Hassan and the community for reaching out and ensuring my father received a dignified send off.” Umesh Singh, Phoenix Community Police Form (CPF) chairman said: “This is a heartbreaking tragedy. The reporting of missing persons has no waiting period. It
is matter of life and death. We urge community members to report missing persons as soon as possible. Share every bit of information with police to speed up the process. “We will ensure that police and all the relevant authorities work hastily to put the wheels in motion to search for the missing person. We extend our condolences to the bereaved family.” 