Could it be, that finally Human trafficking in South Africa has been exposed, at least in part? It seems that what was once a hidden, and unhindered 42 to 350 billion dollar industry per year, has garnered enough attention to warrant new laws, ongoing investigations and the establishment of a dedicated TIP (Trafficking in Persons) task team in every province in South Africa. These structures all put into place, in the last seven years, should make you sit up and pay attention.Yet so few people are aware of the reality of this trade in our beloved land. Human-trafficking has captured our beautiful South Africa and it is literally destroying our people, our children, our future. While we are all so careful to lock-our doors and mind our business, our country is hi-jacked by crime on almost every level. The worst one being Human trafficking. As both an origin and destination country for trafficked victims, a failing economy, a politically gridlocked government, crime, poverty, corruption, social and cultural pressures, all serve to make South Africa a veritable treasure trove, for would be traffickers. They operate virtually out in the open without fear of reprisal. Moreover, a broken policing system and laws that hold no authority, allows this industry to flourish unchecked. This puts South Africa in the top 10 countries, with the highest rate of human trafficking. This being said, statistics has become somewhat of a sore point as there is no reliable data that accurately tracks persons lost to trafficking. Some reports have listed 50 to 100 000 people as missing per annum but opposing proponents would argue that they are under stated or exaggerated. Both scenarios are problematic in that a clear picture of the real dilemma we face, is clouded in debate as to the validity of the number of victims reported. The victims in the meanwhile are slowly dying in the cruelest way. Of grave concern by those working to expose this monster is that the figures are very much understated, as there seems to be an unnerving trend to bury any kind of whisper that it might be a problem. In contrast when a story cannot be buried, fake news suddenly springs up creating panic and fear diverting resources and attention only to be, just as suddenly, revealed as fake giving the impression that it is all “much ado about nothing.” Interest is lost and the industry is once again cloaked to continue its insidious trade, unhindered. All the while human beings as young as five are being abused in the vilest of ways, while we languish. One merely needs to ask, why if this is not such an issue in our country, a dedicated task team would be assigned to it and laws would be ratified to accommodate it? Our lax border controls, a vast majority of easily bribe-able and corrupt officials, rising unemployment, poverty and the rampant crime, all work together like a well-oiled cog, making South Africa and ideal hotspot for trafficking in persons. We, as people, have overcome some of the most adverse conditions throughout the history of this land. We have time and again proven that we are nothing, if not people who are able to muster through brutal situations and come out victorious by sheer grit and determination. Human trafficking, must be tackled in much the same way. We must take our land and our people back. We must become righteously angry and show these hoodlums the door. We can start by being aware. Knowledge, is as they say, is power. Make it your business to know the neighbours in your street. Get onto a Whatsapp group for your community.
Know, the friends of your children. Know who they are talking to. Encourage your kids to talk to you. If you are not talking to them, who is? Discuss human trafficking and the dangers thereof. Traffickers have money and time. They will come alongside the targeted person for months, if need be. Know, who befriends your family. Be aware of who you talk to. Always let someone know where you are and never go to places you know is dangerous. If an offer of work seems to good to be true, it more than likely is. Research a company before you go for an interview. Make sure that it is reputable and well known.Do not meet a potential employer in a dodgy place, where it would be easy to force you into a car or building. Have a “safe” word for your family. Should anyone be in trouble, the “safe” word should be easily worked into a sentence. Take note of the clothing your loved one wears every day. Note the cars that drive behind you at any given time, the colour and the reg number to eliminate being followed. Do this on a daily basis. Make this a memory game for your kids. Do not show the name of the school or the school bag or badge, that your child attends, on social media.
Do not show your location on social media report a missing person immediately. You do not have to wait 24 hours to report a person missing. For any information to National Human Trafficking Resouce Line 080 022 2777. Break the silence #hhppb #saveourchildren