Phoenix couple, Bennie Motiall and his lovely wife, Viroda Motiall celebrated their ruby wedding anniversary marking 40 years of marital bliss this year. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid the devoted pair said: “We celebrated our milestone wedding anniversary with our precious family and friends and the love that they showed us was endearing.” The Motialls had an arranged marriage which they expressed was the best decision they ever made. “We had an arranged marriage which we don’t regret to date. Many years ago, my wonderful husband and his family had went to a shop called Bhana Bhai in Mayville where they met my uncle Mr Maharaj and the arrangements were planned. Even though our union was arranged, when my husband and I met for the first time, it was love at first sight,” said Viroda. Bennie said: “It was definitely love at first sight. She was all I was looking for in a woman. She is beautiful, respectful, responsible and has a loving and caring character. I knew she would make the perfect wife.” “When I first saw Bennie, I just knew he was my Mr right. He has all the qualities that a woman would want in man – handsome, honest, hardworking, responsible, independent and the list goes on. There are not enough words to describe this remarkable man I call my husband,” added Viroda. The Motialls wedded in 1980, after courting for four months. “We had a beautiful Hindi wedding at a hall in Sydenham called David Landau. It was a big, colourful and vibrant ceremony with our dear family and friends,” said the Motialls. When asked about what personal qualities they like most about each other, the Motialls responded: “Well, 40 years of marriage is a huge milestone, the fact that we have been married for 40 years speaks volumes – we both have all the good qualities the other person was looking for and that is needed in a marriage for it to work, we got it all.” In his leisure time, Bennie enjoys fishing, and listening to soothing music while Viroda enjoys watching her favourite Bollywood movies and series on Zee World and cooking scrumptious meals for her loved ones. The Motialls are blessed with three children (Mervin, Felicia and Alicia), five grandchildren (Tyrique, Ria, Lyreece, Brayton and Jeremiah), a daughter-in-law, Kubashni and two son-
in-laws, Peter and Junior. On giving advice for a long lasting marriage the couple said: “Honesty and trust make the foundation in a marriage to never shake. Don’t get bored of each other, we always express how we feel about each other everyday and not a single day goes by without saying ‘I love you’ to the other person. It makes our love for each other grow more everyday.” 