eThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda has called for city officials to fast track the auditing of all monies spent in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In May, Kaunda launched a R66 million Covid-19 social relief plan where councillors of 110 wards in eThekwini were given funds in the form of food hampers and vouchers worth R600 to be distributed to those most affected by the pandemic. “Yes, we may not have reached everyone because of the number of people who are vulnerable in our communities, but without any fear of contradiction we made a huge dent to poverty alleviation and we are very proud of making a difference. It is therefore of paramount importance that we commence with a thorough auditing. Anyone that would be found by this process to have short-changed the vulnerable, would definitely face the full might of the law,” said Kaunda. Tino Pillay, ward 49 councillor said that these funds were distributed on a first come first serve basis as people of the particular community felt their concerns were a priority. “The applications we received were far more than what we asked for. People tried to apply even if they didn’t meet the criteria. It was difficult to assess who was the most needy.” He said that one of their most challenging tasks was dealing with the community outcry. “We had 1000 vouchers but over 2000 applicants and some had to be denied. They felt we were giving our friends and families. There was a lot to verify as those who applied for the vouchers don’t live in the homes they claim to or not even in the ward at all.” Pillay understood that by not verifying all those who received the vouchers he would be judged, however states that “it was virtually impossible and just did not have the manpower.” He said one of the avenues he used to find community members most affected was from churches. “To distribute these vouchers, I created a team from my ward committee members to physically distribute some of the vouchers to people at their doors and submitted all evidence to council.”
Ernest Smith, ward 27 councillor said that distribution of the vouchers to councillors began on 25 May and ended on 3 June. “Distribution of these vouchers was done under the watch of both ward committee and apolitical community members who assisted in ensuring transparency at a grass roots level as well as to ensure that residents from Morningside were prioritized. There were cases of people who stayed outside the ward who attempted to cheat the system and were refused vouchers,” he said. Smith said that the ward committee members were used to identify people to be placed on the list and encouraged people through social media to submit names of indigent families in the area who needed assistance. “The voucher lists with the details of beneficiaries were handed back (to council) to ensure transparency and accountability of where these vouchers were allocated to,” he said. Smith also said the speaker had requested more council meetings as some public representatives had not submitted them accordingly.” Mluleki Mntungwa, mayoral spokesperson said that the auditing is still in progress and there is no date for when the auditing needs to be finalised. “Councillors need to be given time to do their work,” he said.