Known for their two-day fashion events, the Durban Chic Mamas switched things up a bit by launching a retail clothing outlet in Westville. The outlet came about when team members, Sharon du Preez and Gaye Wright transformed the storeroom into the upmarket boutique it is. The storeroom was used to raise funds for charity by selling pre-owned clothing and fashion accessories. Chic Mamas Do Care is a South African non-profit organisation which raise funds to support early childhood development projects in their neighbouring communities. The charity drive originated in Cape Town, with the idea to apply the charity clothes shop concept to high quality fashion. The charity was officially registered in 2010 and has since branched out to Johannesburg and Durban. Jenny Du Bois, head mama of the Durban team said: “We are thrilled with our new boutique-style retail outlet. The response has been amazing and we are delighted to be able to offer all our supporters the opportunity to indulge in more frequent chic shopping and thereby raise funds for our educational upliftment initiatives.” Du Bois said that their supporters were delighted to join the team to celebrate the opening and the feedback was that Chic Mamas have elevated shopping for charity to a new level by creating this unique shopping experience. “The rails are filled with top quality new or preloved boutique style items appreciated by discerning shoppers. Affordable pricing completes this irresistible shopping experience,” she said. The funds generated from the ongoing sales will enable Chic Mamas to support many preschool projects. “The team is passionate about early childhood development and believe that all children deserve to develop in a safe and stimulating environment,” said Du Bois. Shoppers are invited to participate in a Swap4Charity where they can bring four to six quality women’s clothing items in exchange of gratuity tokens of a nominal ZAR value to spend at the shop. The outlet can be found at 2 Cedar Road Westville. They are open on Thursday, Fridays and Saturdays from 10am to 1pm. Covid-19 protocols are in place.