Congress of the South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) embarked on a national shut down on Wednesday, 7 October, to highlight government corruption that has been taking place during the national lockdown. Protestors came from as far as Pietermaritzburg to join the march in Durban. The demonstrations started at the Curries Fountain Stadium and ended at the Durban Central police station where a memorandum was handed over. Protestors said that they are tired of corruption that is still continuing with the ANC government officials. Cosatu and its affiliates called on government to address their demands and said that the peaceful protest was to highlight serious issues in South Africa such as corruption, job losses and the high rate of gender-based violence. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, Cosatu KZN Secretary Edwin Mkhize said that the main aim of the protest was to address the corruption that South Africans are currently facing because of the challenges caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mkhize said that over 42 percent of South Africans are unemployed and there are some individuals and companies who are pocketing the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) Covid-19 TERS money which is meant to help the unemployed. “People who steal money that is supposed to be helping the unemployed should be called murderers because they are stealing the money that is supposed to be saving lives. During lockdown when people were at home, companies in the private sector did not want to assist workers by paying the UIF tax. Some of the companies have claimed for relief funds but did not release the money to their workers. Some of them go to an extent of claiming but do not give it back to the correct beneficaries which in this case are, the employees.”
Mkhize said that corruption is the main problem which results in hundreds of South Africans being unemployed. He said that is why people find themselves having to protest against government’s service delivery. “As much as we are happy that there are some individuals who have been arrested, we are calling out for more arrests to be done, hence, this is why we are gathered here. People who stole from the government during lockdown have to be brought to book. People who have looted and stole money which was meant for PPE’s should also be behind bars, ” he said. A protester who did not wish to be identified said that the lift at Addington Hospital is not working and the management says that they are working on the situation. The only lift that is working is meant for garbage. Patients have to walk from the emergency services to the wards. The protestor said that the government officials who visit the hospital to assess service delivery do not go all the way upstairs.
Durban Metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said the demonstration was peaceful. “From the chopper, demonstrators were seen moving slowly on the N2 and N3 for the big meet up that was set in Curries Fountain. Motorists were advised to avoid Bram Fischer Road which was going to be the route of the demonstration. As far as the Curries Fountain to Durban Central SAPS to hand over the memorandum went, there were slight road congestions.” he said. 