Leadership and education non-profit, Symphonia for South Africa (SSA), Joined millions of teachers globally in celebrating the UNESCO-declared World Teacher’s Day on Monday, 05 October. The celebration was under the theme ‘Leading in Crisis, re-imagining the future’. SSA took the opportunity to draw attention to the integral role teachers play in providing a quality education to children, and reflect on what more needs to be done to invest in and assist teachers in their task. Dorcas Dube, marketing and communications manager for SSA said: ‘’Teachers are our nation builders. They are uniquely positioned to contribute to stronger and better functioning societies that produce well-educated citizens and a well-trained workforce, and yet far too many teachers are still undervalued and disempowered.” Dube said that the role teachers play is significant in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, the challenges faced by education systems have been made worse by the crisis. “We have seen teachers make personal sacrifices to ensure that teaching and learning continues, with many going above and beyond the call of duty to ensure learners and their families were fed while schools were shut. In light of this, we call on all active citizens, communities, businesses, government and civil society to ramp up their support for education, the teaching profession and organisations dedicated to uplifting teachers,’’ she said. According to Dube, SSA believes empowering and up skilling principals is key in addressing the challenges faced by teachers. She said school principals hold a powerful leadership role in helping to create conditions for effective teaching and learning. “They influence the motivations and capacities of teachers and the environment and climate that they work in, which in turn shapes classroom practice and learning outcomes. When principals attain the leadership competencies, confidence and energy to lead, the benefits ripple out to the teaching staff: they become re-energised, and their morale is significantly boosted,’’ said Dube. SSA has hosted regular School Leadership Forums for the last nine years. The forum touches on principals, teachers, school management team, and school governing body. These parties are all invited and engage in various topics pertaining to school life. Dube said: “This is yet another way SSA, with the generous sponsorship of loyalty rewards and the fundraising programme MySchool, MyVillage MyPlanet, upskills teachers by exposing them to new ideas and practices and inspiring them to try something different. They learn from each other, extend their networks and receive guidance on education-related matters in a professional but relaxed environment.” With the spotlight firmly on the plight of teachers and the myriad of challenges they face, SSA hopes that many more South Africans will mobilise around the issues affecting teachers, and the overarching goal of inclusive, quality education for all. ‘’Those who care about education and the future of South Africa are best positioned to make a tangible difference. Now is the time to amplify our efforts to ensure that teachers feel supported in every school and in every community for the benefit of every child,’’ Dube said.