Canelands residents in Verulam are living in fear after two more people were found murdered in the area, on Monday morning. Both victims were found with gunshot wounds on their bodies on Station Road. The first victim was found dead in the center of the road while the other one was located on a pathway about 300 meters away from the first incident. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, provincial police spokesperson, confirmed the incident. She said that crime experts were at the scene in the morning, combing the area for clues. “The deceased had been shot several times. She said the victims were believed to be about 30 years old. Mbele said the motive for the killing was unknown. “Nobody has been arrested for the incident. Verulam police are investigating a double murder case,” she said. This gruesome discovery follows the incident on 24 September in the area, where two men were found dead with gunshot wounds outside their home. Prem Balram of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said that they were called out to the scene at about 5.14am. “Upon arrival on the scene, our paramedics found the first victim sustained gunshot wounds to his head, chest and back. The second victim was shot in the face and arm. Both men were declared deceased by paramedics,” he said. Balram said that residents claimed that they did not see or hear anything. He added that the motive for the murders was unknown. Residents reeling from the shock told the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid that crime in the area was out of control. Peter Mhlongo, a resident, said: “I do not want to speculate about what might have led to this incident. All I can tell you is that we are living in fear.” He said that they are struggling to get deliveries in the area as delivery vehicles get robbed or attacked. Mhlongo called on the provincial police to intervene, claiming that the issue was beyond local authorities. “We need the government to intervene and stop this. They can deploy more officers, even the army on the ground.
People cannot continue living like this,” he said. Another resident Nomkhosi Caluza, complained about the area not having enough programmes to keep the youth have occupied. She said that the youth has become involved in gang and drug-related activities.