The Association for the Aged is excited to announce that its Old School Drive-In Movie night fundraising event, a safe and socially distanced entertainment option for the whole family, is back to kick off the Third term school holidays on Saturday, 24 October at a brand new location; The Harlequins Sports Bar on the Bluff, south of Durban. The event, which has become a favourite amongst Tafta supporters, is now in its second year and is the perfect intergenerational platform to end the organisation’s month of festivities to commemorate the Month of Older Persons. “We launched the month with the United Nations’ International Day of Older Persons on 1 October 2020 this year and focused on commemorating our elders through active ageing and fun activities, but also through more serious discussions of issues relevant to them such as mental wellbeing and its significance to the United Nations’ declaration of a Decade of Healthy Ageing,” explained Tafta CEO Femada Shamam. Shamam added that in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic this year, many older people were separated from family members and those who cared for them, including Tafta’s own Home Based Care team who serve the community in Wentworth and surrounds. “So we were very excited that our team were able to resume caring for this community’s elders as Lockdown eased. However, the pandemic has had an enormous impact on fundraising at Tafta, with us being unable to host events, and allow new admissions, so we are hoping that we see as many families come out to support this safe, and affordable event
on 24 October. Please do bring along grandparents who live with you too!” Shamam encouraged. So, for a fun-filled family night under the stars, join Tafta to watch the Halloween-themed ‘Hotel Transalyvania. Entrance to the venue is as 6pm. Food and Drinks can
be purchased directly from Harlequins, and Tafta will be selling popcorn – however
you are welcome to bring your own food and snacks, if you prefer to. Please note
no alcohol will be allowed onto the premises but can be bought directly from Harlequins. Early Bird tickets can be purchased via EFT or at the gate for just R220 per car,
so bring your family through to enjoy and raise funds for the elderly! Covid-19 protocols will be in place and sanitizer stations will be available. Remember to have fun with
our Halloween theme and be responsible for your health and the safety of those around you. Further queries related to this matter can be directed to Tafta’s Marketing Manager, Prevashni Naidu on 031 332 3721/ 083 781 2006 or email: prevashni@tafta.org.za