The IIE’s Varsity College Westville VC Cares student body initiated a sanitary towel drive on campus and will be donating to their adopted school, Christianenburg Primary. The VC cares is a student volunteer body that gives members the opportunity to lead fellow students in a range of initiatives that include fundraising, awareness drives and outreach programmes. The adopted school is selected based on their level of need, as well as on the premise that would positively impact the community. Kara Lortan, the college’s public relations officer said: “Christianenburg Primary School is located a mere 9.6 km from our campus and is in need of support. Many of the children who attend this school rely on the school’s government-backed feeding plan for their main meal of the day, and the school itself is in desperate need of maintenance and repair to its severely compromised infrastructure.” Due to the college’s proximity to their adopted school, they have been able to build and nurture a close relationship with the school’s leadership team. This has enabled the college to collaborate with the school to identify projects that they have been able to drive in order to support the school and its pupils. “Our staff and students derive huge satisfaction from our collaboration with Christianenburg Primary School and we always look forward to our visits to the school. We support local schools for a period of two years to assist with sustainability and empowerment and then we move onto/adopt the next school to create an equal opportunity to make a positive impact and difference to other pupils,” said Lortan. The staff and students were encouraged to donate sanitary towels. “Staff and students were encouraged by the VC Cares Committee and the student relations manager via email to drop off sanitary towels on campus or make a cash donation towards the purchase of sanitary towels. “We had a great response from our staff and students as sanitary towels to the value of R1500 was collected,” said Lortan. According to the Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, globally, girls and young women are forced to miss school and classes at tertiary institutions due to lack of sanitary towels. This monthly pattern of missing out on education has devastating long term effects, not only in terms of educational development, but also on
the psyche of young women. “The initiative provided an opportunity for students to make a real meaningful difference in the lives of the school girls,” said Lortan. Zanele Ntombela, student relations manager said that even though it is rightful for girls to have access to sanitary towels, it is not easy for some females to attain them especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Many school girls are dependent on their school’s for sanitary towels and it is amazing to know that we can fill that gap with the help of our staff and students,” she said.