Is fear holding you back from living the life of your dreams? So, often we find ourselves in a situation where we feel stuck not knowing how or what to do it take the first step in moving forward in our life. The simple reason for that is we do not wish to face our fears when it comes to mapping our steps into a better, more fulfilled life. The fear attached to the unknown can be debilitating – it can cause such great emotional stress that life can feel overwhelming. You may know that you want to take action (lose weight, start your own business or even let go of a toxic relationship) but you are just so afraid of venturing out of your comfort zone to the ‘unknown’ that you rather stay where you are at than do something that will be good for you.The power of the mind is great and with proper strategies, taking massive action in your life is possible. Take a no excuse approach
There are so many reasons that we find to not take action. It could be, “I do not have time” or “I do not have enough money to invest in starting my business” or “I am way too busy to….”. All of these are excuses to actually take action. By acknowledging that you are making excuses and really want to make a difference in your life – you will then open up the energy channels to allow abundance to manifest in your life. By placing emphasis on excuses you are actually shutting the door to achieve success and happiness. Feel the fear
Yes! Go ahead, and acknowledge that it is scary to take the step into the unknown. We are all human beings and the fear emotion is experienced by all of us (to different degrees). Even as a child – taking the first step was exciting yet at the same time quite scary. There are few falls and with practise we managed to get up and try and try again until we walked and then ran. Hence, the same technique applies to taking on new challenges of life – the initially fear will be there however with practise, you will be sure to overcome the fear. Therefore, allow yourself to acknowledge that it can be scary and you may need to lift yourself up if you fall (metaphorically) but continue trying until you have achieved your outcome. Stretch beyond your comfort zone
If you want to achieve the next level in your life then you have to be comfortable with being uncomfortable. I know that is a super conflicting statement, however, you will need to do things differently, take those bold, consistent action steps towards your successful life. The fear of moving away from our comfort zone (to an uncomfortable zone) is what holds us back. Remember, that initially you will stretch beyond your comfort but soon enough you will find that to be your new comfort area and it will not be as daunting as it initially seemed to be. Go ahead, take those steps to let go of your fear and welcome your life of abundance. About the columnist : Krsangi Radhe is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching. She is an NLP practitioner, time-line therapist and mindset coach helping women, children and couples. She is an teacher and motivational speaker.