The Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry NPC is concerned to note that hundreds of motorists were forced to find alternative routes to work on Monday morning due to the disruption of traffic caused by violent protests along the M19. This follows after approximately 600 shack dwellers engaged in protest action which threatened the safety of motorists and other road users on the city’s roads, and resulted in traffic congestion and road closures, ultimately impacting business operations across the city. It is alleged that the protestors are from Reservoir Hills and Quarry Road informal settlements. Last week, eThekwini Municipality removed illegal connections in these settlements after complaints from residents of recurring power cuts due to a power system strained from illegal connections. On Monday, shack dwellers took to the streets demanding that the municipality build them proper houses and reconnect all the illegal connections which were removed. Quarry Road PR councillor, Sagar Singh said that it is unfortunate that informal residents were left in the dark, however, it is more stressful for the formal residents to be left without electricity everyday because of illegal connections.
“We have a 97-year-old resident who calls me almost everyday complaining of power cuts.
Some of the informal settlers do have prepaid connections however, those living on the river bend are the ones connecting illegally and the municipality has informed them that this was not safe and they still continue. They even damaged the ward councillors office,” said Singh. He said that as a PR councillor for the area, he has made attempts to get through to the mayor’s office to request a meeting with him, however, has not received any response. Ward 23 councillor, Xolani Nala was contacted for comment, however, there was no answer on his cellphone and landline. The police and metro were out in full force monitoring the situation and managed to arrest 10 protestors who were involved in the looting of shops, damage of 10 private vehicles and burning of a municipal bus and a Mercedes-Benz belonging to the Reservior Hills Community Policing Forum. Durban Metro Police spokesperson, Parbhoo Sewpersad said that the 10 arrested protestors are facing charges of public violence. He said that there were about 600 protestors all together. Palesa Phili, CEO of Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry NPC said: “Our city cannot afford protest action which will result in further loss of business productivity and negatively impact on the investment and tourism profile of the city. We believe prolonged periods of protest will translate to huge losses for our economy. “Hence, Durban Chamber maintains that negotiation is vital to reduce the negative effects. We urge all parties involved to enter into discourse that will result in an equitable resolution for all concerned. It is also important that law enforcement take immediate action to reduce the risk of damage to public and private property as well as safeguarding the lives of road users and other citizens,” said Phili. Ethekwini Municipality was contacted for a comment but none was received at the time of print. 