Chaos reigned at the Durban City Hall on Thursday when fighters of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a protest demanding answers after the return of city manager, Sipho Nzuza and Sandile Ngcobo who served as eThekwini’s head of supply chain management to their duties. Nzuza returned to work after he was suspended for a period of three months after his arrest as a co-accused in the former mayor, Zandile Gumede’s corruption case. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson said that Nzuza’s suspension was in accordance with the disciplinary regulations governing senior managers of local government. “His suspension was also enforced to make way for an independent investigation by the KZN Provincial Treasury on allegations on Nzuza violating supply chain processes,” Mayisela said. He said that the progress report on this investigation tabled by eThekwini mayor, councillor Mxolisi Kaunda, stated that there were delays in finalising the investigation, partly due to Covid-19 lockdown as well as the unavailability of some of the material documents. “The special leave, which was granted to Nzuza after the expiry of the suspension came to an end on 25 September. The mayor will meet with Nzuza to discuss how is he going to do his duties against the background of his bail conditions,” Mayisela said. After learning of Nzuza’s return to work, EFF shut down the Durban City Hall demanding that investigations on Nzuza be finalised and that internal disciplinary actions are taken against Nzuza. His co-accused Sandile Ngcobo returned to work after an approval of his return was allegedly approved by the city manager, Sipho Cele three weeks back, without any internal disciplinary processes. Ngcobo is among the key role players in the tender fraud estimated at over R400 million and was also rewarded with a vehicle, a Jaguar, worth R1million by three of Gumede’s co-accused. Mlebuka Hlengwa, EFF Durban regional chairperson said: “We want to know the outcome of the investigations, therefore, the city hall will remain closed until we are listened to. Sipho Nzuza who served as the city manager who had been suspended also returned to work. He was accused of misconduct towards a company that was doing work for the municipality. According to the investigator Nzuza was found guilty of 10 charges and in eight of those charges there is more than enough evidence of misconduct.” He said that when the report came back it said that nothing can be done on those charges. “Nzuza was suspended for six months and since the report said nothing can be done he returned to work. We will not allow that. His leave must be extended so that formal charges are laid against him,” Hlengwa said. DA eThekwini caucus leader, councillor Nicole Graham released a statement comparing the case of Nzuza to a story in a novel. “To paraphrase one of Shakespeare’s most tragic heroes, King Lear, when it comes to the internal case of Nzuza, nothing has come of nothing,” she said. Graham said that Nzuza was suspended by the full eThekwini Council six months ago for a period of three months. “He was not suspended for the matter that led to his arrest, but rather for the alleged irregular appointment of a consulting company. Although the law only allows for a suspension period of three months, Nzuza negotiated a further three months leave with Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda. This leave was endorsed by council as a last resort,” Graham emphasised. Graham said that “everyones jaws hit the floor” when Nzuza arrived back at City Hall on Monday, refusing to take any further leave. “The regulations for the discipline of senior managers are quite clear. Council can suspend a municipal manager for three months to conduct an investigation. That investigation must be completed within 30 days for the council to make a decision. This has not happened. “The ball has been completely dropped and the municipality has no grounds left to not allow Nzuza back to work. This is because the investigations that should have been completed have not been completed and there are no legal avenues left to keep Nzuza away from City Hall,” she said. Nzuza’s charges relate in part to SCM issues and Graham said that his bail conditions preclude him from being involved in SCM processes. “By its very nature, the municipal managers role is that of an accounting officer. The Municipal Finance Management Act and the municipality’s own SCM policy designate extensive responsibility to the accounting officer when it comes to awards, tenders and related processes. “At Wednesday’s council meeting, the DA motivated for the council to formally delegate all SCM powers and functions from the city manager to the chief financial officer, Krish Kumar. This was voted down by the ANC.The mayor and the ANC seem to think it is a better idea to negotiate with Nzuza as to who should take over his duties via his delegation. The idea that Nzuza- and not the council – would be entrusted with this responsibility is utterly absurd,” said Graham. She alleged that Nzuza’s justification is that he has no incentive to breach his bail conditions. “What Nzuza claims his plans are, is frankly immaterial. As the DA, our priority is ensuring that the city’s finances and procurement policies are not compromised more than they already are. This cannot be a negotiated settlement with Nzuza himself. It is clear that the ANC in eThekwini is not serious about resolving issues around fraud and corruption within the municipality. Nzuza’s co-accused, Sandile Ngcobo, is back at work, and so too was Robert Abbu until his recent retirement.” She said that the matter should have received urgent attention and the council should have agreed to the DA’s recommendation to keep Nzuza away from any tender or SCM process.
“The DA will continue the fight to get eThekwini back on the right track amidst total ANC chaos. The 2021 election gives the residents of eThekwini the opportunity to do the only real thing that will save this city – get rid of the ANC and vote for a better future,” Graham said.