Since its inception in 1985, the Breast Cancer Awareness Month running from 1 until 31 October, has ignited conversations around this deadly disease, empowered women living with or having survived breast cancer. It has also encouraged millions to check in on their own health, and has honoured the lives we have lost. According to Cancer. Net, over 40,000 women die of breast cancer each year with some of those deaths being preventable from early detection. For this reason, among others, we help to paint the world pink during October and raise awareness for this disease. Durban North News had a chat with Veronica Ramruch who has survived this deadly disease twice and takes us through her journey as a breast cancer survivor. Durban North News (DNN): How can you best describe Veronica Ramruch?
Veronica Ramruch (VR): I describe myself as a strong woman who is not afraid to share my opinions and speak the truth. I have a zest for life and live with courage and determination, and find passion in everything that I do. I am filled with kindness, generosity, compassion, integrity, a willingness to be vulnerable, and authentic. I believe in spreading positive energy, but most of all I believe in the power of God . I acknowledge myself to not be a victim but rather a tough, strong, loved, beautiful, worthy and unique survivor. DNN: When were you diagnosed and at what age?
VR: My first diagnosis of breast cancer was in August 2015, followed by a second diagnosis of breast cancer in February 2019. DNN: What stage were you diagnosed with?
VR: First diagnosis stage three Triple Negative Breast Cancer. Second diagnosis Stage two Triple Positive Breast Cancer. DNN: How was the cancer initially detected? (i.e. through a BSE, a CBE or an annual mammogram)
VR: First diagnosis, I noticed my right breast swelling and becoming painful and red and then under my armpit there was a lump. This continued for almost three weeks and then did not disappear as I was expecting it to but rather it became uncomfortable and unbearable. I then decided to book for my mammogram with Lake, Smit & Partners. I had my mammogram and the findings of the mammogram required me to have a biopsy. Second diagnosis, after the first diagnosis, my oncologist advised me to have regular bi-annual mammogram examinations, it was all clear until February 2019. After the screening, I was requested to have an ultrasound that picked up some abnormalities in the left breast. The radiologist then explained to me the abnormalities and requested that I have an MRI of the breast, followed by a biopsy which confirmed the cancer. DNN: How did you feel when you first received the news?
VR: I waited in anticipation to receive the biopsy results and a few days later contacted my GP for the results. My GP then told me that my results were all clear and that I have nothing to worry about. I still remember his exact words, “You can celebrate as you do not have cancer.” I was over the moon as I didn’t know if I could handle bad news . Sometimes the strongest of people cannot face the facts or the truth. I continued my life as normal for a few days thereafter. Two days later my story unfolds further. I work for Lake, Smit & Partners radiologists who always have a personal touch to the well being of their employees and I was lucky that my biopsy results were also sent to them. The radiologist gave me the news of my diagnosis in a very subtle way also confirming the actual results on paper. No amount of tears can take away the fear of cancer.
Finding out that you have cancer for the second time in your life, as I recall that everlasting feeling of being despondent, overwhelmed and the feeling of wanting to give up. How much can a person handle in their life, was once not enough. My first battle fighting stage three triple negative breast cancer was a very difficult battle, those moments I still relive. The side effects of post chemotherapy and radiation lasts. I can never forget the pain of hearing this news. I couldn t believe it was true. I could not believe that I had to do this all over again. DNN: Is there a history of breast cancer in your family?
VR: Yes, there is a family history of breast cancer paternal siblings, but my dad also had carcinoma of the larynx. DNN: Did you have a support network? If not, how did you overcome it or find it?
VR: Feeling helpless and disorientated, we did what most people would do in this situation and relied fully on our oncologist and surgeon to pave the path towards recovery. I relied on my faith every minute of the day. DNN: Tell me about your treatment process.
VR: First diagnosis – My treatment plan was 16 rounds of chemotherapy, right mastectomy and 25 days of radiotherapy this lasted about eleven months. Second diagnosis was six rounds of chemotherapy and herceptin injections on the thigh muscles. The thought of chemotherapy scared me. It is double the side effects. This was the moment when the diagnosis, the treatment, the road behind, the road ahead, all converged. I started to plan how I wanted my year to be when treatment ended. Somewhere from within, we find a strength that helps us to overcome. My treatment plan began on the 9 April 2019. The first lasted 5 hours which were the anti-nausea, steroids, taxane, cyclophosphamide and herceptin. DNN: Were there any programmes or services offered to you that would help with the treatment process?
VR: I did telephonic counselling and had some face to face interaction with a psychologist to prepare myself throughout this journey. There were programmes that I attended such as look good, feel good which shows you how to look good even in bleak times. DNN: Did you face any obstacles during your treatment? If so, how did you overcome these obstacles?
VR: My first diagnosis – I faced many obstacles after each treatment. The first of the killer red devil Adriamycin Cytoxan. A few days later I went into the biggest black hole of my life. The side effects of the chemotherapy had taken over my body and my life completely. Nausea, pain during hair loss, decline in my white and red blood cells whereby my immune system took a knock.
Hair loss did not affect me emotionally as I prepared myself to deal with it, however the pain while falling out was unbearable. I lost part of my vision, loss in balance, fatigue and had no energy and loss of appetite. I fought with determination and courage, giving no reason for cancer to take over me.I adapted to changes daily that offered no road map but I stayed strong and positive throughout. I was hospitalised a few times during chemotherapy and many nights to and for emergency centres but each time I was back fighting from strength to strength. My second diagnosis – I thought I was fully prepared for the side effects, but actually not, the feeling is different each time. As with the first diagnosis the side effects of chemotherapy got the better of me. Each time I ended up in isolation at the Hospital as my immune system took a drastic knock and my bloods were down to almost zero levels. All you need to overcome these obstacles is to constantly trust god to pave the way and the love and support from your family and friends. My husband was my eyes when I couldn t see, he was my voice when I could not speak, my strength when I was weak, he just got me through this without a murmur of complaint. DNN: What would you like to say to women in general?
VR: Accept yourself the way you are. Listen to your body and never give up on life. There is always light at the end of the tunnel. Each of us is different and will never experience the same side effects, all you can do is take every day as it comes. It is incredibly important to have your regular mammogram screening, as early detection, often through screening, can catch the disease when it is most treatable. DNN: What’s your message to people living with cancer?
VR: Stay patient and trust your journey but most of all trust in God. Choose to see the blessings in experience of having cancer. Cancer changes you completely but it gives you something extraordinary. Cancer gives you a new perspective on life. Cancer gives you the opportunity to live your life in the moment, with purpose. Cancer Changes you, surprises you, but believe you are a winner and you will beat it. Stay strong and fight with determination. Have your regular mammogram check. Seek out positive people. Listen to your healthcare team and follow their advice. Find the best care and support. Be grateful for your life.