The Tawakul ‘Women of Art for Aid’ Initiative culminated in a Charity Art Auction on Heritage Day at Aucor Durban on 24 September Heritage Day. The auction was held in aid of the Islamic Medical Association of South Africa (IMASA) for their Covid-19 relief fund and pre-bidding started on 22 September. Over 50 female artists artwork was donated from across South Africa and were showcased on the Tawakul crowd funding site, for the duration of Heritage and Women’s Month. Tawakul announced that over R40 000 was already raised prior to the auction and a generous figure of approximately R80 000 was raised during the online auction, with Aucor having waived all the charges. M Hoosen Essof, managing director of Tawkul said that there were eventually over 90 pieces of art by professionals and hobbyists and all of them were given in the hope that funds could be raised specifically for the medical relief effort. “Our frontline workers and medical personnel in particular put their lives on the line in order to help treat and care for those infected by the dreaded coronavirus. Most of us know of someone who has
been affected by Covid-19 and some of us have lost friends, family and colleagues to the pandemic. It’s sad and tragic that we couldn’t do more to help them,” Essof said. He said that he would like to thank the community and bidders on behalf of all of the artists, the IMA, sponsors and Aucor. Hafiz Yunus Paruk marketing manager of
Al Baraka Bank said: “On behalf of Al Baraka Bank we are indeed grateful for
the opportunity to be a co-sponsor for the Women of Art for Aid first-ever virtual charity auction. We appreciate the efforts that Tawakul have made in this initiative. Aucor auctioneers part in the facilitation and efforts too must be acknowledged. To all the women who have donated their art pieces for the benefit of the Covid relief fund we salute
you all. Noor Muhammed, manager at Ammanah Insurance said; “Ammanah is pleased to have been part of the first ever Islamic art auction and prays it benefits humanity.” Speaking to one of the artists, Farieda Salie, Cape Town-based said that she was very pleased to hear that all three of her art pieces were sold in the auction “I am a member
of the South African Foundation For Islamic Art (SAFIA). While I was living with my daughter in Westville Durban, I was involved with Sister Honey Allie of the IMA bereavement group. When Tawakul requested for donations for IMA Covid-19 relief efforts, I donated three pieces of my work, hoping to be of help.” Shehnaz Suliman of Pretoria said ; “I was blessed to take part in the Charity Art Auction and Tawakul ‘Women of Art for Aid’ Initiative after having much regret as to not being able to aid in the current pandemic. A heartfelt thanks goes out to the organiser, Hoosen Essof and all those that worked behind the scenes and the artists who advised on pricing and other considerations.” Another artist, Aashia Kola Sahib of Rustenburg, who donated an art piece titled ‘Daisy’ said; “Giving is not just about making a donation; it is about making a difference in someone’s life. The reason behind me joining the Tawakul art initiative is because small actions with lots of people make a big difference or change in the lives of those that matter.” Shehnaz Desai, Durban artist and director of L’Art Arabe Gallery, said she was delighted to participate in the Tawakul art initiative and auction. “Being part of a community of artists from around South Africa is truly amazing. L’Art Arabe Gallery in Musgrave, Durban served as a collection point for artworks en route to the top bidders.” Dr Shakira Cassim from the IMASA-Durban branch expressed her gratitude saying;
“We on behalf of IMASA would really like to commend and appreciate the efforts of the Women in Art and we also acknowledge the time, the patience, and the sacrifice that they’ve put in to produce such beautiful works of art. We’d like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to them from one art form to another and especially bringing joy and life to others.”