High flying Phoenix karate duo Sensei Devan and Chantal Kumarasamy have been taking the karate world by storm since their karate career began many years ago. The duo who met through the sport are both karate instructors affiliated to the International Shotokan Karate Federation South Africa (ISKFSA) under Sensei San Pillay who is the president. They both train and teach under the banner of the Association of Shotokan Karate-Do South Africa (ASKDSA) with the president Sensei Dennis Kumarasamy. Sensei Devan and Sensei Chantal have been practicing karate for 35 years and 25 years respectively therefore attaining valuable knowledge and experience over the years. They are both 3rd Dan black belt and will be taking their 4th Dan grading in 2021 under chief instructor of International Shotokan Karate Federation, Sensei Hiroyoshi Okazaki who is a 9th Dan. Sensei Devan and Sensei Chantal are very passionate and dedicated about the sport and have been promoting the sport in the Phoenix community for many years. Sensei Chantal, 34, began taking karate at the tender age of 8-years-old, training under the watchful eye of Sensei Dennis Kumarasamy. Her late mum and role model enrolled her in karate for the purposes of self-defense and discipline. She said that it was her mum who motivated her to take up the sport and to strive for excellence whilst practicing it. “Initially karate was just a sport to help me keep fit and for self-defense but little did I realise that I would go beyond the horizons and be so successful in the sport,” said Sensei Chantal. She has been representing Ethekwini, Kwazulu-Natal and South Africa ever since she was 12-years-old. Being ranked in the top 4 in the country afforded her the opportunity to represent South Africa at the Zone 6 (now known as Region 5) in Johannesburg, South Africa in July 2015 where she won two silver medals in the elite and open sections in her division. Later that year in September she went on to represent South Africa at the Commonwealth Karate Championships in New Dehli, India. Sensei Chantal is also ranked in the Top 4 in ISKFSA where she was selected to represent South Africa at the ISKF World Cup in Cape Town, South Africa in 2016. The highlight of her karate career was earning her Protea Colours in 2017 where she represented South Africa at the Region 5 Karate Championships in Mozambique where she won silver for kumite in her division. Sensei Chantal said that she owes her success to her mum who continuously motivated her to achieve her goals and to her instructor Sensei Dennis who never stopped believing in her potential to excel. Sensei Chantal said that karate has equipped her to be alert and aware of her surroundings especially in this male dominated world. She is also grateful for the continuous support from her friends and family especially her husband, Sensei Devan. Sensei Devan ,40, began his karate journey at the age of four with his dad and mentor, Sensei Dennis Kumarasamy. He has been scooping accolades since he was 8-years-old and has been representing the eThekwini region, Kwazulu-Natal province and South Africa for many years. Initially, Sensei Devan enrolled in karate for self-defense and discipline which eventually became a passion. He has been ISKFSA National Champion for numerous years and have represented the country at the ISKF World Cup in Cape Town, South Africa in 2016. Sensei Devan said that he was not keen about becoming competitive until his wife, Sensei Chantal and his sister, Sensei Vijay Govender motivated and inspired him to fly higher in order to achieve his goals in the sport. “As a veteran, I was able to be ranked in the top three in my division for both kata and kumite for many years. In December 2018, I represented South Africa at the Commonwealth Championships in Durban, South Africa where I became the commonwealth kumite champion in my division,” said Sensei Devan. In May 2019, He earned his Protea Colours and represented South Africa at the Region 5 Karate Championships in Namibia where he won gold for kata and bronze for kumite which is great achievement for me. “Besides self-defense, karate has taught me confidence, alertness, concentration and the ability to have self-control,” he said. The couple teach karate at Rydalvale Primary in Phoenix where they have been instrumental in helping many young children to be equipped with a life skill. Their success and achievements in the sport is due to hard work, commitment and passion. They owe their achievements to God and the ongoing support and upliftment from their instructor, Sensei Dennis Kumarasamy and coach, Sensei Vijay Govender. They are very passionate about equipping women and children in a skill such as karate because of the increase in gender-based violence and child trafficking. They were both selected to participate at the 4th ISKF World Cup which was to be held in London, England this year, but was later postponed to 2021 due to Covid-19. 