After serving the community for 47 years, Roselite Bus Service has been put to a complete halt, as their last three operational buses went up in smoke on 1 October. Mahomed Hoosen, who started the company with just two buses, had suffered the loss of three buses and a private vehicle in an alleged arson attack in 2018. During this attack Hoosen also had gun shots fired at him. Last week he watched a further three buses burn to the ground. Hoosen said two men had climbed the wall at approximately 1am and gained entry to his property. “One, who was armed held the security guard at gun point and took away his cellphone. The other poured petrol in and around the buses” he said. Affectionally known in the community as “mKhulu”, Hoosen said for as long as he is running the business he has helped the vulnerable in the community. “They are our passengers and the ones who support the buses. Not those who are rich. So we do what we can for the community. Even if there’s a funeral, we will transport people to the cemetery and back free of charge.” After watching his business turn to ash Hoosen said he is left heartbroken. “It’s as if the world came down crashing because this isn’t the first time. I first watched three buses and my vehicle burn and now another three are gone. All I could do was watch the flames. At first I thought I was dreaming as so many emotions ran through my mind. These three were saved because at the time of the first fire my son managed to move them out before the fire spread. Now we have nothing and this was our family’s only source of income,” said Hoosen. Councillor Bobby Maharajh said the attack on the bus owner is totally uncalled for and goes against everything Transport month is trying to promote. “The municipality is looking at finding ways to move people safely from one point to another. The message that’s going out is what was once a safe means of transportation is not anymore. This goes against everything humane” said Maharajh. He said at this time people in the community are asking him what has he done about this, “the question is, ‘what can I do’?” he said. “This is arson, plain and simple. This is a criminal offense.” Captain Nqobile Gwala from the South African Police Service said: “Charges of armed robbery and arson are being investigated by Greenwood Park SAPS. It is alleged on 1 October at 1am, two unknown armed suspects held the security guard at gunpoint on Park Station Road in Kenville and took his cellphone They set alight two buses that were parked in the yard. The suspects fled the scene after the incident. The matter is still under investigation.”