Ethekwini Municipality celebrated World Homeless Day on Saturday at Bellhaven Memorial Hall. The aim of the event was to spread the awareness on and enforce the message of reuniting with families, giving the homeless access to employment and business opportunities, drug rehabilitation, access to health services, skills development and training, access to education and provision of accommodation. To kick off the event, officials were led by eThekwini’s deputy mayor, Belinda Scott who is the champion for the city’s homelessness programme by visiting the Jewish Homeless Shelter where there is a gardening programme, aimed to highlight successes by the City in its interventions made to improve the well-being of homeless residents, especially since national lockdown level 5. Scott said that Ethekwini is working hard towards achieving its Sustainable Development Goal 11, which seeks to make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. “It is also important to note that with the continuous interventions and the comprehensive plans to aggressively address homelessness in the City, we are also contributing to the realisation of the National Drug Master Plan which aims to reduce supply and demand of drugs for non-medicinal use, increase harm reduction treatment approaches and prevent new drugs from entering the market,” Scott said. Ashok Sewnarain from Pavillion Hotel donated R100 000 towards the City’s Drug Withdrawal Programme and Scott conveyed her heartfelt gratitude to Sewnarain and all stakeholders from the public, private sector, academia and civil society for their unwavering support towards the initiative. Among other interventions Scott highlighted that the City, in collaboration with the Department of Social Development are exposing approximately 2200 homeless people to various technical skills, across the 12 homeless shelters that were set up in the City. Thabiso Dladla, 30, a homeless resident from uMlazi who had benefitted from the city’s intervention programme said that his journey to recovery was not easy but with all the support, he is now living drug free. “I remember during the withdrawal stage, I never thought I would make it. But now I am a living testimony that the life of drugs and being on the streets can be overcome, as long as you have the right support,” said Dladla. Academia, business and Non-Governmental Organisation stakeholders including the Durban University of Technology, the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry and We Are Durban were part of the event. Ethekwini also invited other organisations and business to donate towards the City’s Drug Withdrawal Programme at the Bellhaven Harm Reduction Centre.
To donate kindly contact Durban University of Technology Professor Monique Marks on 0844033934 and for food donations, kindly contact We are Durban CEO, Linda Morrison on 0796936219.