Covid-19 aside – DIFF did break a leg and refused to bite the dust to bring us a cinema verite of a festival of films “I am a Muslim and a Hindu and a Christian and a Jew and so are all of you.’’ – Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, eloquently recited by Ben Kingsley in Richard Attenborough’s 1982 period biographical blockbuster film on the life of India’s ‘’Father of the Nation’’ after the film-maker’s twice failed bid in 1952 to make the epic film when the British Raj gave independence to India after earlier setting Pakistan free on 14 August 1947 so that Lord Mountbatten could attend both inaugurations. DIFF or the Durban International Film Festival was hosted under extraordinary conditions this year amidst the challenges and crisis of the Covid-19’s coronavirus campaigns across the world. Traditionally staged in winter for 40 years that attracts independent film-makers, movie moguls, film-goers, movie buffs and veteran and budding directors and producers from around the world – like our Little Cannes – that lends a strong brand to Durban as an emerging film capital, though the breathtaking locations of Cape Town steals the march on us. I bypassed the Vodacom Durban July 2020, but was intrigued by the master plan at R200 000 to put the DIFF together without the full-blown cinematic tradition of this annual pilgrimage of the past. This time films were screened online and via the big screens over 10 days. So, full kudos to the management crew of UKZN-CCA- DIFF-US Consulate-General, for also taking us back in time to 1960s Durban to the golden age of drive-in cinemas albeit exclusively and separately for whites only and non-white audiences. Back to the big screen, better late than never, and the films rolled out over a week, with the curtains opening with and closing with two diverse made in SA films, This Is Not A Burial But A Resurrection and Videovision’s Dust – both excellent productions that are diametrically and culturally opposed in dialogue. In this part of the world it
was Durban déjà vu, but DIFF also took its feast of films roadshow to drive-in cinemas in Richard’s Bay and Empangeni so that its crowds from the townships to cities would enjoy 60 hours or three days of independently produced and financed movies. With strict protocols in place, only 50 motor vehicles were permitted at these four drive-ins – with the Durban Country Club’s driving range transformed into a drive-in with the power of technology bringing alive to the makeshift big screen the home-brewed movie, Dust, with sound via SABC radio frequency 87,5fm.
Without sponsorship arts and culture could die a slow death. Somehow, sponsors, philanthropists, legacy and family trust funds and world governments like the US missions in SA – all together did break a leg and refused to kick the Dust in ensuring that the event hits the screens. A new normal, but really a far cry from the cinema nouveau of screening at big cinema houses. The whole crew came to the party on Saturday night – from the DIFF’s Ismail Mohamed, making a directorial debut as newly-appointed head of the UKZN’s Centre for Creative Arts, to the new curator Chipo Zhou and various stakeholders, film foundations and boards. It was also nostalgic for Mohamed to take up the challenging assignment of hosting four arts and culture events, bringing a wealth of experience and meritorious services from the US Consulate and the Grahamstown Arts Festival. Guests at all outdoor screenings were treated to boxes of goodies – including a DIFF brand mask, chocolates, mineral water, juice, meat/vegetarian rolls, coffee sachet and sweets and popcorn. I reached out to Mohamed: “I am looking forward to this new career challenge. I like the vibrant and dynamic arts and cultural environment in KwaZulu-Natal and Durban. At Grahamstown, Rhodes University was at the heart of a small town that brought the world’s artistic people together. In the five years in American consular services, I have interacted with a range of exciting people from policymakers, intellectuals and artists.’’ While his work is cut out for Poetry Africa (12 to 17 October), Time of the Writers (March 2021), Jomba! Contemporary Dance Festival and DIFF 2021, the US diplomats will also be busy adding value to our cultural heritage:
Kiera Emmons of the US Embassy, took up the storyline with me: “The US Consulate General in Durban is proud to partner with the University of KwaZulu Natal’s Centre for Creative Arts for the only film festival on the continent to be an Academy Awards-qualifying film event. “As an official sponsor, our goal is to expose South Africans to American films and filmmakers and to empower some of South Africa’s most promising young, black, and female filmmakers. “Through this collaboration, South African filmmakers have had the opportunity
to learn from – and with – American cinematic artists, who have trained local, up-and-coming filmmakers in script development, storyboarding, and post production techniques. “The US. Government supports the creative industry in South Africa as a way to widen the aperture for prosperity. “By creating momentum in the arts and in arts entrepreneurship, the Consulate contributes to the creation of job opportunities for filmmakers, increasing shared prosperity, and opening doors for stronger people-to-people relationships between the two countries.” She said the diplomatic mission applauded the UKZN CCA “team’s ability to reimagine something with such history and social relevance in the context of the COVID pandemic and restrictions’’ -especially the all-online digital viewing as an “amazing feat of adaptation and creativity, given the complicated and evolving challenges we are all facing’’. Until next week, it’s lights, camera, action for 2021 with a DIFF-erence. Marlan Padayachee is a seasoned journalist who heads a media communication strategy, publishing and research consultancy, belongs to the Southern African Freelancers’ Association (SAFREA), SA Editors’ Forum (SANEF), Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International), and an USIS and British Council Fellow; and is an independent political and social commentator and continues to write columns and leading articles and opinion-editorial commentary for newspapers, magazines, TV and radio, online digital and social media platforms. To get in contact with Marlan email:marlan.padayachee@gmail.com