Residents were left without water in the Rydalvale, Starwood and parts of Longcroft and Sunford areas last week when a water pipe cracked on Longbury Drive, Phoenix. They claim their water supply was closed off for 24 hours without any prior notice. Ronnie Veeran, Mosa national chairperson said that an asbestos main feeder water pipe cracked in front of 80 Longcroft Drive, Phoenix, resulting in the water supply being closed off completely from 2pm on Sunday, 18 October until 5pm the following day. “Furthermore, when water tankers were finally provided, there were not enough to cover the many affected areas, senior citizens were not able to collect water as the tankers were parked at a distance from their homes and many people were not able to go to work as they did not have access to water on Monday,” Veeran said. Mr Kercee, resident of Longbury Drive said that he had a water leak earlier in the month and lodged a complaint with the eThekwini call centre after water began seeping into his property on 7 October. “The water was running into my yard and it was getting flooded. I contacted the municipality and received a reference number. They eventually came on site and said they will be sending a specialised plumber. We waited for two weeks and no one came, until this major leak,” said the resident. Jerald Govender who had the paving on his driveway as well as his carport removed in order for the contractor to carry out the repairs looks forward to it being reinstated as soon as possible. “My paving blocks were removed and the driveway was completely damaged so they could get to the water pipes which are running under my driveway. My wall has also been cracked and I had to remove my awning as well. Our cars are currently parked off on the roadside as we cannot gain entry to the property. We would like to be compensated as a lot of damage has been caused to our property,” said Govender. Pastor Rajan Moodley, Starwood resident said: “It is very disappointing to note that this matter was reported well in advance yet no one responded to the call. I personally phoned to report the matter on Sunday evening, it was noted and I received a reference number. I called again towards midnight to do a follow-up, this second call was also noted. When I woke up this morning, we still did not have any water so I called again as it became a matter of concern – only to discover that my report the previous night wasn’t even on record. I told the person on the phone that I have a reference number with me to prove that I reported the issue they still insisted that nothing was noted.” “Having being told this, there’s definitely something wrong with the system and it’s the little things that make such a big difference in the community – for example if they responded early enough or even inform people what is going on – it puts the community at ease. There should also be supervision when these pipes are repaired because when a repair has been done, you can almost guarantee that it is going to reoccur a few months down the line and nobody is coming to check if the repair was done properly to ensure that the problem will happen again,” added Pastor Moodley. Veeran has since written and made representations to eThekwini Municipality for the affected individuals. “I have written to the head of water and sanitation pointing out the inconvenience caused to hundreds of residents of Ward 49. The matter was reported much earlier on in the month but was not attended to until this major problem. Phoenix has so many suitably qualified and experienced plumbers yet a contractor based in Pinetown was appointed to attend to this case,” said Veeran. He added: “The people of Phoenix contribute significantly to the city’s coffers in the way of rates and service charges and opportunities should be given to them so that the turn around time for repairs are speeded up and the large volumes of water that go literally down the drain will be saved, as the effects of climate change takes its toll.”